                 UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT                            
            FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK                        

                                 Case No. 1:20-cv-01293-JPC-JLC          
 IN RE LUCKIN COFFEE INC.                                                
 SECURITIES LITIGATION                                                   

     REVISED                                                             
      [PROPOSED] ORDER PRELIMINARILY APPROVING SETTLEMENT                
          AND PROVIDING FOR NOTICE OF THE SETTLEMENT                     
    WHEREAS, an action is pending in this Court entitled In re Luckin Coffee Inc. Securities 
Litigation, Case No. 1:20-cv-01293-JPC-JLC (the “Action”);                
    WHEREAS, on March 5, 2021, the Court issued an Order certifying the following class 
for  settlement  purposes:  all  persons  and  entities  (and  their  beneficiaries)  that  purchased  or 
otherwise acquired the American Depository Shares (“ADSs”) of Luckin Coffee Inc. between May 
17, 2019 through July 15, 2020, inclusive (the “Class”);1                 
    WHEREAS, (a) Sjunde AP Fonden and Louisiana Sheriffs’ Pension & Relief Fund 
(together, “Class Representatives”), on behalf of themselves and the Class (defined below); and 
(b)Luckin Coffee Inc. (in Provisional Liquidation) (“Luckin” or the “Company”) have determined

1    Excluded from the Class are Defendants (i.e., Luckin Coffee Inc., Charles Zhengyao Lu, Jenny 
Zhiya Qian, Jian Liu, Reinout Hendrik Schakel, Hui Li, Erhai Liu, Jinyi Guo, Sean Shao, Thomas P. Meier, 
Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC, China International Capital Corporation 
Hong Kong Securities Limited, Haitong International Securities Company Limited, KeyBanc Capital 
Markets Inc., and Needham & Company, LLP); the Officers, directors, and affiliates of Defendants; 
members of Defendants’ Immediate Families and their legal representatives, heirs, successors or assigns; 
and any entity in which Defendants have or had a controlling interest. Also excluded from the Class are the 
persons or entities that timely and validly requested exclusion from the Class following the procedures set 
forth in the Class Notice, as set forth in Appendix 1 of the Stipulation and Agreement of Settlement dated 
October 20, 2021 (“Stipulation”).                                         
to settle all claims asserted against Luckin and the other Defendants’ Released Parties in the Action 
with prejudice on the terms and conditions set forth in the Stipulation and Agreement of Settlement 
dated October 20, 2021 (the “Stipulation”), subject to the approval of this Court (the “Settlement”);  
    WHEREAS, Class Representatives have made a motion, pursuant to Rule 23(e)(1) of the 
Federal  Rules  of  Civil  Procedure,  for  an  order  preliminarily  approving  the  Settlement  in 

accordance with the Stipulation and allowing notice of the Settlement to Class Members as more 
fully described herein;                                                   
    WHEREAS, the Court has read and considered: (a) Class Representatives’ motion for 
preliminary approval of the Settlement and authorization to send notice of the Settlement to the 
Class, and the papers filed and arguments made in connection therewith; and (b) the Stipulation 
and the exhibits attached thereto; and                                    
    WHEREAS, unless otherwise defined in this Order, the capitalized terms herein shall have 
the same meaning as they have in the Stipulation;                         
    NOW THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY ORDERED:                                 

    1.   Preliminary  Approval  of  the  Settlement  –  The  Court  hereby  preliminarily
approves the Settlement, as embodied in the Stipulation, and finds, pursuant to Rule 23(e)(1)(B)(i) 
of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, that it will likely be able to finally approve the Settlement 
under Rule 23(e)(2) as being fair, reasonable, and adequate to the Class, subject to further 
consideration at the Settlement Hearing to be conducted as described below. 
    2.   Settlement Hearing – The Court will hold a settlement hearing (“Settlement
Hearing”) on  J_u__ly_ _2_2__ __, 2022 at 1_1: _00_ a_.m. in Courtroom 12D of the Daniel Patrick Moynihan 
United States Courthouse, 500 Pearl St., New York, NY 10007-1312 for the following purposes: 
(a) to determine whether the proposed Settlement on the terms and conditions provided for in the
Stipulation is fair, reasonable, and adequate to the Class, and should be finally approved by the 
Court; (b) to determine whether a Judgment that shall, among other things, provide for the 
dismissal of the Action with prejudice, should be entered; (c) to determine whether the proposed 
Plan of Allocation for the proceeds of the Settlement is fair and reasonable and should be approved; 
(d) to determine whether the motion by Class Counsel for attorneys’ fees and Litigation Expenses 

should be approved; and (e) to consider any other matters that may properly be brought before the 
Court in connection with the Settlement. Notice of the Settlement and the Settlement Hearing shall 
be given to Class Members as set forth in paragraph 4 of this Order.      
    3.   The Court may adjourn the Settlement Hearing or decide to hold the Settlement 
Hearing  telephonically  without  further  notice  to  the  Class,  and  may  approve  the  proposed 
Settlement with such modifications as the Settling Parties may agree to, if appropriate, without 
further notice to the Class.                                              
    4.   Retention of Claims Administrator and Manner of Giving Notice – Class 
Counsel are hereby authorized to retain Epiq Class Action & Claims Solutions, Inc. (the “Claims 

Administrator”),  the  administrator  previously  approved  by  the  Court  to  administer  the 
dissemination of notice in connection with certification of the Class (“Class Notice”), to supervise 
and administer the notice procedure in connection with the proposed Settlement as well as the 
processing of Claims as more fully set forth below. Notice of the Settlement and the Settlement 
Hearing shall be given by Class Counsel as follows:                       
              (a)  not later than twenty (20) calendar days after the date of entry of this 
    Order (the “Notice Date”), the Claims Administrator shall cause a copy of the Settlement 
    Notice and the Claim Form, substantially in the forms attached hereto as Exhibits 1 and 2, 
    respectively (the “Settlement Notice Packet”), to be mailed by first-class mail, or emailed, 
    to potential Class Members who were previously identified in connection with Class 
    Notice, including those persons and entities listed in the records provided by Luckin, its 
    securities transfer agent, and/or its depositary bank, and any other potential Class Members 
    who otherwise may be identified through further reasonable effort, and shall cause a copy 
    of  the  Settlement  Notice  Packet,  to  be  mailed  to  the  brokers  and  other  nominees 

    (“Nominees”) contained in the Claims Administrator’s Nominee database;
              (b)  contemporaneously  with  the  mailing  of  the  Notice  Packet,  the 
    Claims Administrator shall cause copies of the Settlement Notice and the Claim Form to 
    be  posted  on  the  website  developed  in  connection  with  Class  Notice, 
    www.LuckinCoffeeSecuritiesLitigation.com, from which copies of the Settlement Notice 
    and Claim Form can be downloaded. In addition, Class Counsel shall post the Settlement 
    Notice and Claim Form on their websites, www.blbglaw.com and www.ktmc.com; 
              (c)  not later than ten (10) business days after the Notice Date, the 
    Claims Administrator shall cause the Summary Settlement Notice, substantially in the form 

    attached hereto as Exhibit 3, to be published once in The Wall Street Journal and to be 
    transmitted once over the PR Newswire; and                           
              (d)  not  later  than  seven  (7)  calendar  days  prior  to  the  Settlement 
    Hearing, Class Counsel shall serve on Luckin’s Counsel and file with the Court proof, by 
    affidavit or declaration, of such mailing and publication.           
    5.   Approval of Form and Content of Settlement Notice – The Court (a) approves, 
as to form and content, the Settlement Notice, the Claim Form, and the Summary Settlement 
Notice, attached hereto as Exhibits 1, 2, and 3, respectively, and (b) finds that the mailing and 
distribution of the Settlement Notice and Claim Form and the publication of the Summary 
Settlement Notice in the manner and form set forth in paragraph 4 of this Order (i) is the best notice 
practicable under the circumstances; (ii) constitutes notice that is reasonably calculated, under the 
circumstances,  to  apprise  Class  Members  of  the  proposed  Settlement,  of  the  effect  of  the  
Settlement (including the Releases to be provided thereunder), of Class Counsel’s motion for 
attorneys’ fees and Litigation Expenses, of their right to object to the Settlement, the Plan of 

Allocation, and/or Class Counsel’s motion for attorneys’ fees and Litigation Expenses, and of their 
right to appear at the Settlement Hearing; (iii) constitutes due, adequate, and sufficient notice to 
all persons and entities entitled to receive notice of the proposed Settlement; and (iv) satisfies the 
requirements of Rule 23 of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, the United States Constitution 
(including the Due Process Clause), the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, 15 
U.S.C. §§ 77z-1, 78u-4, as amended, and all other applicable law and rules. The date and time of 
the Settlement Hearing shall be included in the Settlement Notice and Summary Settlement Notice 
before they are mailed and published, respectively.                       
    6.   Nominee Procedures – In the previously disseminated Class Notice, Nominees 

were advised that if they purchased or otherwise acquired Luckin ADSs during the period from 
May 17, 2019 through July 15, 2020, inclusive, for the beneficial interest of persons or entities 
other than themselves, they must either: (i) within seven (7) calendar days of receipt of the Class 
Notice, request from Epiq sufficient copies of the Class Notice to forward to all such beneficial 
owners and within seven (7) calendar days of receipt of those Class Notices forward them to all 
such beneficial owners; or (ii) within seven (7) calendar days of receipt of the Class Notice, provide 
a list of the names and last known addresses of all such beneficial owners to Epiq. 
                   (a)   For Nominees who chose the first option (i.e., elected to mail 
    the Class Notice directly to beneficial owners), Epiq shall forward the same number of 
Settlement Notice Packets to such Nominees, and the Nominees shall, within seven (7) 
calendar days of receipt of the Settlement Notice Packets, mail the Settlement Notice 
Packets to their beneficial owners;                                  
              (b)  For Nominees who chose the second option (i.e., provided a 
list of names and addresses of beneficial owners to Epiq), Epiq shall promptly mail a 

Settlement Notice Packet to each of the beneficial owners whose names and addresses the 
Nominee previously supplied. Unless the Nominee purchased or otherwise acquired the 
Luckin ADSs during the Class Period for beneficial owners whose names and addresses 
were not previously provided to Epiq, or the Nominee is aware of name and address 
changes for these beneficial owners, these Nominees need not take any further action; 
              (c)   For Nominees who purchased or otherwise acquired Luckin 
ADSs during the Class Period for beneficial owners whose names and addresses were not 
previously provided to Epiq or if a Nominee is aware of name and address changes for 
beneficial owners whose names and addresses were previously provided to Epiq, such 

Nominees shall within seven (7) calendar days of receipt of the Settlement Notice Packet, 
provide a list of the names and addresses of all such beneficial owners to Epiq, or shall 
request from Epiq sufficient copies of the Settlement Notice Packet to forward to all such 
beneficial owners which the Nominee shall, within seven (7) calendar days of receipt of 
the Settlement Notice Packets from Epiq, mail to the beneficial owners; and 
              (d)   Upon full and timely compliance with this Order, Nominees 
may seek reimbursement of their reasonable expenses actually incurred in complying with 
this Order by providing the Claims Administrator with proper documentation supporting 
the expenses for which reimbursement is sought. Such properly documented expenses 
    incurred by Nominees in compliance with the terms of this Order shall be paid from the 
    Settlement Fund, with any disputes as to the reasonableness or documentation of expenses 
    incurred subject to review by the Court.                             
    7.   CAFA Notice – As provided in the Stipulation, Luckin shall serve the notice 
required under the Class Action Fairness Act, 28 U.S.C. § 1715 et seq. (“CAFA”) no later than ten 

(10) calendar days  following the filing of the Stipulation with the Court. Luckin is  solely 
responsible for the costs of the CAFA notice and administering the CAFA notice. No later than 
seven (7) calendar days before the Settlement Hearing, Luckin shall cause to be served on Class 
Counsel and filed with the Court proof, by affidavit or declaration, regarding compliance with 28 
U.S.C. § 1715(b).                                                         
    8.   Participation in the Settlement – Class Members who wish to participate in the 
Settlement and to be eligible to receive a distribution from the Net Settlement Fund must complete 
and submit a Claim Form in accordance with the instructions contained therein. Unless the Court 
orders otherwise, all Claim Forms must be postmarked no later than one hundred and twenty (120) 

calendar days after the Notice Date. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Class Counsel may, at their 
discretion,  accept  for  processing  late  Claims  provided  such  acceptance  does  not  delay  the 
distribution of the Net Settlement Fund to the Class. By submitting a Claim, a person or entity 
shall be deemed to have submitted to the jurisdiction of the Court with respect to his, her, or its 
Claim and the subject matter of the Settlement.                           
    9.   Each Claim Form submitted must satisfy the following conditions:  (a) it must be 
properly completed, signed, and submitted in a timely manner in accordance with the provisions 
of the preceding paragraph; (b) it must be accompanied by adequate supporting documentation for 
the transactions and holdings reported therein, in the form of broker confirmation slips, broker 
account statements, an authorized statement from the broker containing the transactional and 
holding information found in a broker confirmation slip or account statement, or such other 
documentation as is deemed adequate by Class Counsel or the Claims Administrator; (c) if the 
person executing the Claim Form is acting in a representative capacity, a certification of his, her, 
or its current authority to act on behalf of the Class Member must be included in the Claim Form 

to the satisfaction of Class Counsel or the Claims Administrator; and (d) the Claim Form must be 
complete and contain no material deletions or modifications of any of the printed matter contained 
therein and must be signed under penalty of perjury.                      
    10.  Any Class Member that does not timely and validly submit a Claim Form or whose 
Claim is not otherwise approved by the Court: (a) shall be deemed to have waived his, her, or its 
right to share in the Net Settlement Fund; (b) shall be forever barred from participating in any 
distributions therefrom; (c) shall be bound by the provisions of the Stipulation and the Settlement 
and  all  proceedings,  determinations,  orders,  and  judgments  in  the  Action  relating  thereto, 
including, without limitation, the Judgment and the Releases  provided for therein, whether 

favorable or unfavorable to the Class; and (d) will be barred from commencing, maintaining, or 
prosecuting any of the Released Plaintiffs’ Claims against each and all of the Defendants’ Released 
Parties, as more fully described in the Stipulation and Settlement Notice. Notwithstanding the 
foregoing, late Claim Forms may be accepted for processing as set forth in paragraph 9 above. 
    11.  No Second Opportunity to Request Exclusion From the Class – In light of the 
extensive  notice  program  undertaken  in  connection  with  class  certification  and  the  ample 
opportunity provided to Class Members to request exclusion from the Class at that time, as well 
as the notification they received that there may not be a second opportunity to opt out, the Court 
is exercising its discretion not to allow a second opportunity for Class Members to exclude 
themselves from the Class in connection with the Settlement proceedings. See, e.g., Low v. Trump 
Univ., LLC, 881 F.3d 1111, 1121 (9th Cir. 2018); Denney v. Deutsch Bank AG, 443 F.3d 253, 271 
(2d Cir. 2006).                                                           
    12.  Appearance and Objections at Settlement Hearing – Any Class Member may 
enter an appearance in the Action, at his, her, or its own expense, individually or through counsel 

of his, her, or its own choice, by filing with the Clerk of Court and delivering a notice of appearance 
to Class Counsel and Luckin’s Counsel, at the addresses set forth in paragraph 13 below, such that 
it is received no later than June 24, 2022 (i.e., fourteen (14) calendar days following the proposed 
date for the filing of Class Counsel’s opening papers in support of the proposed Settlement, the 
proposed Plan of Allocation, and Class Counsel’s motion for attorneys’ fees and Litigation 
Expense), or as the Court may otherwise direct. Any Class Member who does not enter an 
appearance will be represented by Class Counsel.                          
    13.  Any Class Member may file a written objection to the proposed Settlement, the 
proposed Plan of Allocation, and/or Lead Counsel’s motion for attorneys’ fees and Litigation 

Expenses and appear and show cause, if he, she, or it has any cause, why the proposed Settlement, 
the proposed Plan of Allocation, and/or Class Counsel’s motion for attorneys’ fees and Litigation 
Expenses should not be approved; provided, however, that no Class Member shall be heard or 
entitled to contest the approval of the terms and conditions of the proposed Settlement, the 
proposed Plan of Allocation, and/or the motion for attorneys’ fees and Litigation Expenses unless 
that person or entity has filed a written objection with the Court and served copies of such objection 
on Class Counsel and Luckin’s Counsel at the addresses set forth below such that they are received 
no later than June 24, 2022.                                              
           Class Counsel                  Luckin’s Counsel               
       Bernstein Litowitz Berger &     Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP         
           Grossmann LLP                Lawrence Portnoy, Esq.           
       Salvatore J. Graziano, Esq.       450 Lexington Avenue            
      1251 Avenue of the Americas        New York, NY 10017              
         New York, NY 10020                                              
    Kessler Topaz Meltzer & Check, LLP                                   
         Sharan Nirmul, Esq.                                             
        280 King of Prussia Road                                         
          Radnor, PA 19087                                               
    14.  Any objections, filings, and other submissions by the objecting Class Member:  (a) 
must identify the case name and docket number, In re Luckin Coffee Inc. Securities Litigation, 
Case No. 1:20-cv-01293-JPC-JLC (S.D.N.Y.); (b) must state the name, address, and telephone 
number of the person or entity objecting and must be signed by the objector; (c) must state with 
specificity the grounds for the Class Member’s objection, including any legal and evidentiary 
support the Class Member wishes to bring to the Court’s attention and whether the objection 
applies only to the objector, to a specific subset of the Class, or to the entire Class; and (d) must 
include documents sufficient to prove membership in the Class, including the number of Luckin 
ADSs that the objecting Class Member purchased/acquired and/or sold during the Class Period, as 
well as the dates, number of shares, and prices of each such purchase/acquisition and sale. The 
objecting Class  Member shall provide documentation establishing membership in the Class 
through copies of brokerage confirmation slips or monthly brokerage account statements, or an 
authorized  statement  from  the  objector’s  broker  containing  the  transactional  and  holding 
information found in a broker confirmation slip or account statement. Objectors who enter an 
appearance and desire to present evidence at the Settlement Hearing in support of their objection 
must include in their written objection or notice of appearance the identity of any witnesses they 
may call to testify and any exhibits they intend to introduce into evidence at the hearing. 
    15.  Any Class Member who or which does not make his, her, or its objection in the 
manner provided herein may be deemed to have waived his, her, or its right to object to any aspect 
of the proposed Settlement, the proposed Plan of Allocation, and Class Counsel’s motion for an 
award of attorneys’ fees and Litigation Expenses and shall be forever barred and foreclosed from 
objecting to the fairness, reasonableness, or adequacy of the Settlement, the Plan of Allocation, or 

the requested attorneys’ fees and Litigation Expenses, or from otherwise being heard concerning 
the Settlement, the Plan of Allocation, or the requested attorneys’ fees and Litigation Expenses in 
this or any other proceeding.                                             
    16.  Stay and Temporary Injunction – Until otherwise ordered by the Court, the Court 
stays all proceedings in the Action other than proceedings necessary to carry out or enforce the 
terms and conditions of the Stipulation. Pending final determination of whether the Settlement 
should be approved, the Court bars and enjoins Class Representatives and all other members of 
the Class from commencing or prosecuting any and all of the Released Plaintiffs’ Claims against 
each and all of the Defendants’ Released Parties.                         

    17.  Administration Fees and Expenses – All reasonable costs incurred in identifying 
Class Members and notifying them of the Action and of the Settlement as well as in administering 
the Settlement shall be paid as set forth in the Stipulation without further order of the Court. 
    18.  Settlement Fund – The contents of the Settlement Fund held by The Huntington 
National Bank (which the Court approves as the Escrow Agent) shall be deemed and considered 
to be in custodia legis of the Court, and shall remain subject to the jurisdiction of the Court, until 
such time as they shall be distributed pursuant to the Stipulation and/or further order(s) of the 
Court.                                                                    
    19.  Taxes – Class Counsel are authorized and directed to prepare any tax returns and 
any other tax reporting form for or in respect to the Settlement Fund, to pay from the Settlement 
Fund any Taxes owed with respect to the Settlement Fund, and to otherwise perform all obligations 
with respect to Taxes and any reporting or filings in respect thereof without further order of the 
Court in a manner consistent with the provisions of the Stipulation.      

    20.  Termination of Settlement – If the Settlement is terminated as provided in the 
Stipulation, the Settlement is not approved, or the Effective Date of the Settlement otherwise fails 
to occur, this Order shall be vacated, rendered null and void, and be of no further force and effect, 
except as otherwise provided by the Stipulation, and this Order shall be without prejudice to the 
rights of Class Representatives, the other Class Members, and Luckin, and the Settling Parties shall 
revert to their respective positions in the Action on September 19, 2021, as provided in the 
Stipulation.                                                              
    21.  Use of this Order – Neither this Order, the Term Sheet, the Stipulation (whether 
or not consummated), including the exhibits thereto and the Plan of Allocation contained therein 

(or any other plan of allocation that may be approved by the Court), the negotiations leading to the 
execution of the Term Sheet and the Stipulation, nor any proceedings taken pursuant to or in 
connection with the Term Sheet, the Stipulation, and/or approval of the Settlement (including any 
arguments proffered in connection therewith):  (a) shall be offered against any of the Defendants’ 
Released Parties as evidence of, or construed as, or deemed to be evidence of any presumption, 
concession, or admission by any of the Defendants’ Released Parties with respect to the truth of 
any fact alleged by Class Representatives or the validity of any claim that was or could have been 
asserted or the deficiency of any defense that has been or could have been asserted in this Action 
or in any other litigation, or of any liability, negligence, fault, or other wrongdoing of any kind of 
any of the Defendants’ Released Parties or in any way referred to for any other reason as against 
any of the Defendants’ Released Parties, in any arbitration proceeding or other civil, criminal, or 
administrative action or proceeding, other than such proceedings as may be necessary to effectuate 
the provisions of the Stipulation; (b) shall be offered against any of the Plaintiffs’ Released Parties, 
as evidence of, or construed as, or deemed to be evidence of any presumption, concession, or 

admission by any of the Plaintiffs’ Released Parties that any of their claims are without merit, that 
any of the Defendants’ Released Parties had meritorious defenses, or that damages recoverable 
under the Complaint would not have exceeded the Settlement Amount or with respect to any 
liability, negligence, fault, or wrongdoing of any kind, or in any way referred to for any other 
reason as against any of the Plaintiffs’ Released Parties, in any arbitration proceeding or other 
civil, criminal, or administrative action or proceeding, other than such proceedings as may be 
necessary to effectuate the provisions of the Stipulation; or (c) shall be construed against any of 
the Releasees as an admission, concession, or presumption that the consideration to be given 
hereunder represents the amount which could be or would have been recovered after trial; 

provided, however, that if the Stipulation is approved by the Court, the Settling Parties and the 
Releasees and their respective counsel may refer to it to effectuate the protections from liability 
granted thereunder or otherwise to enforce the terms of the Settlement.   
    22.  Supporting Papers – Class Counsel shall file and serve their opening papers in 
support of the proposed Settlement, the proposed Plan of Allocation, and Lead Counsel’s motion 
for attorneys’ fees and Litigation Expenses on June 10, 2022; and reply papers, if any, shall be 
filed and served no later than seven (7) calendar days prior to the Settlement Hearing. 
SO ORDERED this   26  _ day of October         , 2021. 

                                   The Honorable John P. Cronan 
                                     United States District Judge 

                               14 

Exhibit 1                                              
                                                         Exhibit 1       
                 UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT                            
            FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK                        

                                 Case No. 1:20-cv-01293-JPC-JLC          
 IN RE LUCKIN COFFEE INC.                                                
 SECURITIES LITIGATION                                                   

 NOTICE OF (I) PROPOSED SETTLEMENT; (II) SETTLEMENT HEARING; AND         
    (III) MOTION FOR ATTORNEYS’ FEES AND LITIGATION EXPENSES             
TO:  ALL  PERSONS  AND  ENTITIES  (AND  THEIR  BENEFICIARIES)  THAT       
    PURCHASED OR OTHERWISE ACQUIRED THE AMERICAN DEPOSITORY              
    SHARES (“ADSs”) OF LUCKIN COFFEE INC. FROM MAY 17, 2019 THROUGH      
    JULY 15, 2020, INCLUSIVE (THE “CLASS”).                              
A Federal Court authorized this Settlement Notice.  This is not a solicitation from a lawyer.
NOTICE OF SETTLEMENT:  This Settlement Notice has been issued pursuant to Rule 23 of the 
Federal Rules of Civil Procedure and an Order of the United States District Court for the Southern 
District of New York (“Court”).Please be advised that the Court-appointed Class Representatives 
Sjunde AP-Fonden and Louisiana Sheriffs’ Pension & Relief Fund (“Louisiana Sheriffs”), on 
behalf of themselves and the Class, have reached a proposed settlement of the above-captioned 
action  (“Action”)  with  Luckin  Coffee  Inc.  (in  Provisional  Liquidation)  (“Luckin”  or  the 
“Company” and, together with Class Representatives, the “Settling Parties”) for $175,000,000 in 
cash (“Settlement”). The Settlement, if approved, with resolve all claims in the Action. The terms 
and provisions of the Settlement are contained in the Stipulation and Agreement of Settlement 
dated October 20, 2021 (“Stipulation”).1                                  
PLEASE READ THIS NOTICE CAREFULLY. This Settlement Notice explains important 
rights you may have, including the possible receipt of cash from the Settlement. If you are a 
member of the Class, your legal rights will be affected whether or not you act. 
If you have questions about this Settlement Notice, the Settlement, or your eligibility to 
participate in the Settlement, please DO NOT contact the Court, the Clerk’s Office, Luckin, 
1    All capitalized terms used in this Settlement Notice that are not otherwise defined herein 
shall have the meanings ascribed to them in the Stipulation, which is available on the website 
www.LuckinCoffeeSecuritiesLitigation.com.                                 
or Luckin’s Counsel. All questions should be directed to Class Counsel or the Claims 
Administrator (see ¶ 67 below).                                           
      Additional information about the Settlement is available on the website, 
                www.LuckinCoffeeSecuritiesLitigation.com.                
    1.   Description of the Action and the Class: This Notice relates to the proposed 
Settlement of claims in a pending securities class action brought by Luckin investors alleging, 
among other things, that Defendants2 violated the federal securities laws by making false and 
misleading statements and omissions regarding, among other things, Luckin’s operating expenses 
and financial reports. A more detailed description of the Action is set forth in ¶¶ 11-24 below. The 
Settlement, if approved by the Court, will settle the claims of the Class, as defined in ¶ 25 below. 
    2.   Statement  of  the  Class’s  Recovery:  Subject  to  Court  approval,  Class 
Representatives, on behalf of themselves and the Class, have agreed to settle the Action in 
exchange for a payment of $175,000,000 in cash (“Settlement Amount”) to be deposited into an 
escrow account. The Net Settlement Fund (i.e., the Settlement Amount plus any and all interest 
earned thereon (“Settlement Fund”) less:  (i) any Taxes; (ii) any Notice and Administration Costs; 
(iii) any Litigation Expenses awarded by the Court; (iv) any attorneys’ fees awarded by the Court; 
and (v) any other costs or fees approved by the Court) will be distributed in accordance with a plan 
of allocation approved by the Court, which will determine how the Net Settlement Fund shall be 
allocated among members of the Class. The proposed plan of allocation (“Plan of Allocation”) is 
attached hereto as Appendix A.                                            
    3.   Estimate of Average Amount of Recovery Per Luckin ADS: Based on Class 
Representatives’ damages consultant’s estimate of the number of Luckin ADSs purchased or 
otherwise acquired during the Class Period that may have been affected by the alleged conduct at 
issue in the Action, and assuming that all Class Members elect to participate in the Settlement, the 
estimated average recovery (before the deduction of any Court-approved fees, expenses, and costs 
as described herein) is $0.44 per eligible ADS. Class Members should note, however, that the 
foregoing average recovery per eligible ADS is only an estimate. Some Class Members may 
recover more or less than this estimated amount depending on, among other factors: (i) when and 
the price at which they purchased/acquired Luckin ADS; (ii) whether the Luckin ADSs were 
purchased in or traceable to the initial public offering of ADSs on May 17, 2019 (the “IPO”), the 
secondary public offering of ADSs on January 10, 2020 (the “SPO”), or on the open market; 
(iii) whether they sold their Luckin ADSs and, if so, when; (iv) the total number and value of valid 
Claims submitted to participate in the Settlement; (v) the amount of Notice and Administration 
Costs; and (vi) the amount of attorneys’ fees and Litigation Expenses awarded by the Court. 
2    The term Defendants refers collectively to: (i) Luckin; (ii) Charles Zhengyao Lu, Jenny 
Zhiya Qian, Jian Liu, and Reinout Hendrik Schakel (the “Executive Defendants”); (iii) Hui Li, 
Erhai Liu, Jinyi Guo, Sean Shao, and Thomas P. Meier (the “Director Defendants”); and (iv) Credit 
Suisse  Securities  (USA)  LLC,  Morgan  Stanley  &  Co.  LLC,  China  International  Capital 
Corporation Hong Kong Securities Limited, Haitong International Securities Company Limited, 
KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc., and Needham & Company, LLP (the “Underwriter Defendants”) 
(collectively, “Defendants”).                                             
Distributions to Class Members will be made based on the Plan of Allocation attached hereto as 
Appendix A or such other plan of allocation as may be ordered by the Court. 
    4.   Average Amount of Damages Per Luckin ADS: The Settling Parties do not agree 
on the amount of damages per Luckin ADS that would be recoverable if Class Representatives 
were to prevail in the Action. Among other things, Luckin does not agree that it, or any of the other 
Defendants, violated the federal securities laws or that, even if liability could be established, that 
any damages were suffered by any members of the Class as a result of their conduct. 
    5.   Attorneys’ Fees and Expenses Sought: Class Counsel have not received any 
payment of attorneys’ fees for their representation of the Class in the Action and have advanced 
the funds to pay expenses incurred to prosecute this Action with the expectation that if they were 
successful in recovering money for the Class, they would receive fees and be paid for their 
expenses from the Settlement Fund, as is customary in this type of litigation. Class Counsel, 
Bernstein Litowitz Berger & Grossmann LLP (“BLB&G”) and Kessler Topaz Meltzer & Check, 
LLP (“KTMC”), will apply to the Court for an award of attorneys’ fees on behalf of all Plaintiffs’ 
Counsel3 in an amount not to exceed 25% of the Settlement Fund. In addition, Class Counsel will 
apply for reimbursement or payment of Litigation Expenses incurred by Plaintiffs’ Counsel in 
connection with the institution, prosecution, and resolution of the claims against Luckin and the 
other Defendants, in an amount not to exceed $1,000,000, plus interest, which amount may include 
a  request  for  reimbursement  of  the  reasonable  costs  and  expenses  incurred  by  Class 
Representatives directly related to their representation of the Class in accordance with 15 U.S.C. 
§ 78u-4(a)(4). Any fees and expenses awarded by the Court will be paid from the Settlement Fund. 
Class Members are not personally liable for any such fees or expenses. The estimated average cost 
per eligible Luckin ADS, if the Court approves Class Counsel’s fee and expense application, is 
approximately $0.11 per ADS. Please note that this amount is only an estimate. 
    6.   Identification  of  Attorneys’  Representatives:  Class  Representatives  and  the 
Class are represented by Salvatore J. Graziano, Esq. of Bernstein Litowitz Berger & Grossmann 
LLP,  1251  Avenue  of  the  Americas,  New  York,  NY  10020,  1-800-380-8496, 
settlements@blbglaw.com, www.blbglaw.com and Sharan Nirmul, Esq. of Kessler Topaz Meltzer 
& Check, LLP, 280 King of Prussia Road, Radnor, PA 19087, 1-610-667-7706, info@ktmc.com, 
www.ktmc.com. Further information regarding the Action, the Settlement, and this Settlement 
Notice may be obtained by contacting Class Counsel or the Claims Administrator at In re Luckin 
Coffee Inc. Securities Litigation, c/o Epiq Class Action & Claims Solutions, Inc., P.O. Box 5887, 
Portland,  OR    97228-5887,  1-855-535-1824,  info@LuckinCoffeeSecuritiesLitigation.com, 
www.LuckinCoffeeSecuritiesLitigation.com. Please do not contact the Court regarding this 
notice.                                                                   
    7.   Reasons for the Settlement: Class Representatives’ principal reason for entering 
into the Settlement is the substantial and certain cash benefit provided for the Class, without the 
risk or the delays and costs inherent in further litigation. In agreeing to settle the Action, Class 
3    Plaintiffs’ Counsel are Class Counsel, BLB&G and KTMC, additional counsel Klausner 
Kaufman Jensen & Levinson (“Klausner Kaufman”), and bankruptcy counsel, Lowenstein Sandler 
LLP (“Lowenstein”).                                                       
Representative also carefully considered Luckin’s current financial situation and its bankruptcy 
proceedings under Chapter 15 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. Moreover, the cash benefit provided 
under the Settlement must be considered against the risk that a smaller recovery—or, indeed, no 
recovery at all—might be achieved after a ruling on the pending motions to dismiss, full discovery, 
contested motions, a trial of the Action, and the likely appeals that would follow a trial. This 
process could be expected to last several years. Luckin denies all allegations of wrongdoing or 
liability whatsoever. Luckin has determined that it is desirable and beneficial to it and the other 
Defendants that the Action be settled in the manner and upon the terms and conditions of the 
Settlement solely to eliminate the uncertainty, burden, and expense of further protracted litigation.   
       YOUR LEGAL RIGHTS AND OPTIONS IN THE SETTLEMENT:                  
SUBMIT A CLAIM FORM    This is the only way to be eligible to receive a payment from 
POSTMARKED (IF         the Settlement Fund. If you are a Class Member, you will be 
MAILED), OR ONLINE, NO  bound by the Settlement as approved by the Court and you 
LATER THAN             will give up any Released Plaintiffs’ Claims (defined in ¶ 35 
_____________, 2022.   below)  that  you  have  against  Luckin  and  the  other 
                      Defendants’ Released Parties (defined in ¶ 36 below), so it is 
                      in your interest to submit a Claim Form.           
OBJECT TO THE          If you do not like the proposed Settlement, the proposed Plan 
SETTLEMENT BY          of  Allocation,  and/or  the  requested  attorneys’  fees  and 
SUBMITTING A WRITTEN   Litigation Expenses, you may object by writing to the Court 
OBJECTION SO THAT IT   and explaining why you do not like them. You cannot object 
IS RECEIVED NO LATER   unless you are a member of the Class.              
THAN __________, 2022.                                                    
ATTEND A HEARING ON    If you have filed a written objection and wish to appear at the 
_____________, 2022 AT  hearing, you must also file a notice of intention to appear by 
__:__ __.M., AND FILE A  __________, 2022, which allows you to speak in Court, at the 
NOTICE OF INTENTION    discretion of the Court, about the fairness of the Settlement, 
TO APPEAR SO THAT IT IS  the Plan of Allocation, and/or the request for attorneys’ fees 
RECEIVED NO LATER      and Litigation Expenses. If you submit a written objection, 
THAN _____________, 2022. you may (but you do not have to) attend the hearing.     
DO NOTHING.            If you are a member of the Class and you do not submit a valid 
                      Claim Form, you will not be eligible to receive any payment 
                      from  the  Settlement  Fund.  You  will,  however,  remain  a 
                      member of the Class, which means that you give up your right 
                      to  sue  about  the  claims  that  are  being  resolved  by  the 
                      Settlement and you will be bound by any judgments or orders 
                      entered by the Court in the Action.                
These rights and options—and the deadlines to exercise them—are further explained in this 
Settlement Notice. Please Note: The date and time of the Settlement Hearing—currently 
scheduled for __________, 2022 at __:__ _.m.—is subject to change without further notice to 
the  Class.  It  is  also  within  the  Court’s  discretion  to  hold  the  hearing  in  person  or 
telephonically.  If  you  plan  to  attend  the  hearing,  you  should  check  the  website, 
www.LuckinCoffeeSecuritiesLitigation.com, or with Class Counsel as set forth above to 
confirm that no change to the date and/or time of the hearing has been made. 
                  WHAT THIS NOTICE CONTAINS                              
Why Did I Get This Settlement Notice?                  Page __            
What Is This Case About?                               Page __            
How Do I Know If I Am Affected By The Settlement?                         
    Who Is Included In The Class?                     Page __            
What Are Class Representatives’ Reasons For The Settlement?    Page __    
What Might Happen If There Were No Settlement?         Page __            
How Are Class Members Affected By The Action                              
  And The Settlement?                                 Page __            
How Do I Participate In The Settlement?  What Do I Need To Do?   Page __  
How Much Will My Payment Be?                           Page __            
What Payment Are The Attorneys For The Class Seeking?                     
 How Will The Lawyers Be Paid?                        Page __            
When And Where Will The Court Decide Whether To Approve The               
    Settlement? Do I Have To Come To The Hearing?  May I Speak           
    At The Hearing If I Don’t Like The Settlement?    Page __            
What If I Bought Luckin ADSs On Someone Else’s Behalf?  Page __           
Can I See The Court File?  Whom Should I Contact If I Have                
    Questions?                                        Page __            
Proposed Plan of Allocation of Net Settlement Fund Among                  
    Authorized Claimants                              Appendix A         
                   WHY DID I GET THIS NOTICE?                            
    8.   The Court authorized that this Notice be sent to you because you or someone in 
your family or an investment account for which you serve as custodian may have purchased or 
otherwise acquired Luckin ADSs during the Class Period. The Court has directed us to send you 
this Settlement Notice because, as a Class Member, you have the right to understand how this class 
action lawsuit may generally affect your legal rights. If the Court approves the Settlement and the 
Plan of Allocation (or some other plan of allocation), the Claims Administrator selected by Class 
Counsel and approved by the Court will make payments pursuant to the Settlement after any 
objections and appeals are resolved.                                      
    9.   This Notice is being sent to inform you of the terms of the proposed Settlement, 
your rights (if you are a Class Member) in connection with the proposed Settlement, and of a 
hearing to be held by the Court to consider the fairness, reasonableness, and adequacy of the 
Settlement, the Plan of Allocation, and Class Counsel’s motion for attorneys’ fees and Litigation 
Expenses (“Settlement Hearing”). See ¶¶ 54-55 below for details about the Settlement Hearing, 
including the date and location of the hearing.                           
    10.  The issuance of this Notice is not an expression of any opinion by the Court 
concerning the merits of any claim in the Action, and the Court still has to decide whether to 
approve the Settlement. If the Court approves the Settlement and a plan of allocation, then 
payments to Authorized Claimants will be made after any appeals are resolved and after the 
completion of all claims processing. Please be patient, as this process can take some time. 
                   WHAT IS THIS CASE ABOUT?                              
    11.  Luckin is a Cayman Islands corporation with principal executive offices in Fujian, 
China. During the Class Period, Luckin operated an extensive network of retail coffee stores in 
China. Luckin conducted an initial public offering of ADSs on May 17, 2019 (the “IPO”) and a 
secondary public offering of ADSs on January 10, 2020 (the “SPO”). Luckin’s ADSs traded on 
the NASDAQ under the ticker symbol “LK” following the IPO until June 29, 2020.  
    12.  In the offering materials for the IPO, in the quarters following the IPO, and in the 
offering materials for the SPO, Luckin reported increasing revenues. However, on January 31, 
2020, an anonymous report was published by Muddy Waters Research, suggesting that Luckin’s 
increased revenues were fraudulent. On April 2, 2020, the Company voluntarily disclosed that 
nearly $300 million of its sales between the second and fourth quarters of 2019 were associated 
with fabricated transactions and advised investors to “no longer rely upon the Company’s previous 
financial statements and earnings releases for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and the 
two quarters starting April 1, 2019 and ended September 30, 2019, including the prior guidance 
on net revenues from products for the fourth quarter of 2019, and other communications relating 
to these consolidated financial statements.” The price of Luckin’s ADSs dropped dramatically 
following these revelations and, on June 29, 2020, trading of Luckin’s ADSs on the NASDAQ 
was suspended.                                                            
    13.  Beginning in February 2020, a series of lawsuits alleging that Luckin and the other 
Defendants had violated United States securities laws were filed in the Court. On May 15, 2020, 
the Court entered an Order that consolidated all related actions into the Action. On June 12, 2020, 
the Court issued an Opinion and Order appointing Sjunde AP-Fonden and Louisiana Sheriffs as 
Lead Plaintiffs pursuant to the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, and approving 
Lead Plaintiffs’ selection of KTMC and BLB&G as Lead Counsel.             
    14.  On  September  24,  2020,  Lead  Plaintiffs  filed  the  operative  complaint  in  the 
Action—the Consolidated Class Action Complaint (“Complaint”). The Complaint asserts that 
Luckin and certain other Defendants violated Section 10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 
(“Exchange Act”) and Section 11 of the Securities Act of 1933 (“Securities Act”). The Complaint 
alleges, among other things, that Defendants included material misstatements and omissions in the 
offering documents for the IPO and the SPO regarding, inter alia: (i) Luckin’s compliance with 
laws and regulations, GAAP, and internal controls over financial reporting; (ii) the reasons for 
Luckin’s increased earnings and growth leading up to the IPO and between the IPO and the SPO; 
(iii) Defendants’ reported revenues and expenses; and (iv) Luckin’s related-party transactions. In 
addition, the Complaint alleges that the offering materials for the SPO omitted material facts 
concerning the margin loan facility some of the underwriters for the SPO entered into with Charles 
Zhengyao Lu, Luckin’s co-founder and then Chairman of Luckin’s Board of Directors, and Jenny 
Zhiya Qian, Luckin’s co-founder and then member of Luckin’s Board of Directors.  
    15.  The Complaint further alleges that between the May 17, 2019 IPO and the January 
10, 2020 SPO, Luckin and certain other Defendants made material misstatements and omissions 
regarding, among other things, Luckin’s operating expenses and financial reports, and, following 
the SPO, falsely denied allegations contained in the report published by Muddy Waters Research 
on January 31, 2020.                                                      
    16.  On November 23, 2020, Luckin moved to dismiss certain portions of the Complaint 
and the Underwriter Defendants moved to dismiss the Complaint in its entirety. On January 22, 
2021, Lead Plaintiffs opposed Luckin’s and the Underwriter Defendants’ motions to dismiss. On 
February 4, 2021, Defendant Thomas P. Meier filed a motion to dismiss the Complaint. 
    17.  While the Action was proceeding in the Court, Luckin entered into provisional 
liquidation proceedings. On July 15, 2020, Luckin announced that by order of the Grand Court of 
the Cayman Islands (the “Grand Court”), provisional liquidators had been appointed over the 
Company (“Joint Provisional Liquidators” or “JPLs”) following the presentation of a winding-up 
petition filed by a creditor of the Company.4                             
    18.  On January 29, 2021, Luckin’s JPLs disclosed that they had reached an agreement 
in principle with holders of Luckin’s convertible bonds, and that they would separately seek to 
resolve the claims of investors in Luckin ADSs that are members of the Class in the Action. 
    19.  On February 5, 2021, Luckin’s JPLs commenced a proceeding under Chapter 15 of 
the U.S. Bankruptcy Code to recognize the Cayman Islands provisional liquidation proceeding as 
a foreign main proceeding in order to seek certain protections under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. 
The U.S. bankruptcy proceeding is pending in the Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of 
New York. See In re Luckin Coffee Inc. (In Provisional Liquidation), No. 21-10228 (MG) (Bankr. 
S.D.N.Y.).                                                                
    20.  On March 2, 2021, Lead Plaintiffs and Luckin filed a stipulation and proposed order 
provisionally certifying the Class for purposes of negotiating and implementing a settlement. On 
March 5, 2021, the Court issued an Order (i) granting provisional class certification of the Class 
for settlement purposes; (ii) certifying a class consisting of all persons and entities (and their 
beneficiaries) that purchased or otherwise acquired the ADSs of Luckin between May 17, 2019 
through  July  15,  2020,  inclusive;5  (iii)  appointing  Lead  Plaintiffs  Sjunde  AP-Fonden  and 
4    In December 2020, Luckin and the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission entered in 
a consent decree under which Luckin agreed to pay a $180 million civil penalty for violations of 
the Exchange Act, which was approved by the Court on February 4, 2021. The amount of Luckin’s 
civil penalty will be offset by any cash payments made by Luckin and distributed to its security 
holders pursuant to the implementation of any scheme of arrangement in accordance with section 
86 of the Cayman Islands Companies Act (2021 Revision), as set forth in the final judgment 
entered by the court on February 4, 2021 in the action Securities and Exchange Commission v. 
Luckin Coffee, Inc., 1:20-cv-10631-MKV.                                   
5    Excluded from the Class are Defendants and their families; the Officers, directors and 
affiliates  of  Defendants;  members  of  Defendants’  Immediate  Families  and  their  legal 
Louisiana Sheriffs as Class Representatives; and (iv) appointing KTMC and BLB&G as Class 
Counsel.                                                                  
    21.  On  May  14,  2021,  Class  Representatives  and  Luckin  filed  a  stipulation  and 
proposed order regarding dissemination of class notice. On July 6, 2021, the Court issued an Order 
approving the form and manner of notifying the Class of the pendency of the Action as a class 
action. Pursuant to the Order, the Notice of Pendency of Class Action (“Class Notice”) was mailed 
to potential Class Members and a summary notice was published in The Wall Street Journal and 
transmitted over PR Newswire. The Class Notice and summary class notice informed potential 
Class Members that requests for exclusion from the Class were to be postmarked no later than 
September 17, 2021. Out of the hundreds of thousands of Class Notices distributed, a total of 110 
requests for exclusion from the Class were received, as listed on Appendix 1 to the Stipulation. 
    22.  While notice was being provided to the Class, Class Representatives and Luckin 
began discussing the possibility of resolving the Action through settlement. On September 20, 
2021, the Settling Parties executed a term sheet setting forth their agreement in principle to settle 
the Action.                                                               
    23.  After additional negotiations regarding the specific terms of their agreement, the 
Settling Parties entered into the Stipulation on October 20, 2021. The Stipulation sets forth the 
specific terms and conditions of the Settlement and can be viewed on the website for the Action, 
www.LuckinCoffeeSecuritiesLitigation.com.                                 
    24.  By  Order  dated  __________  __,  2021,  the  Court  preliminarily  approved  the 
Settlement, authorized notice of the Settlement to be provided to potential Class Members, and 
scheduled the Settlement Hearing to consider whether to grant final approval to the Settlement. 
       HOW DO I KNOW IF I AM AFFECTED BY THE SETTLEMENT?                 
                 WHO IS INCLUDED IN THE CLASS?                           
    25.  If you are a member of the Class who has not previously sought exclusion from the 
Class  in  connection  with  the  Class  Notice,  you  are  subject  to  the  Settlement.  The  Class 
provisionally certified by the Court for purposes of negotiating and implementing a settlement on 
March 5, 2021 consists of:                                                
    All persons and entities (and their beneficiaries) that purchased or otherwise 
    acquired the American Depository Shares of Luckin Coffee Inc. between May 
    17, 2019 through July 15, 2020, inclusive.                           
Excluded from the Class are Defendants and their families; the Officers, directors and affiliates of 
Defendants; members of Defendants’ Immediate Families and their legal representatives, heirs, 
successors or assigns; and any entity in which Defendants have or had a controlling interest. Also 
representatives, heirs, successors or assigns; and any entity in which Defendants have or had a 
controlling interest.                                                     
excluded from the Class are the persons or entities that validly requested exclusion from the Class 
following the procedures set forth in the Class Notice, as set forth in Appendix 1 to the Stipulation. 
PLEASE NOTE:  Receipt of this Settlement Notice does not mean that you are a Class 
Member or that you will be entitled to receive proceeds from the Settlement.  
If you wish to be eligible to participate in the distribution of proceeds from the Settlement, 
you are required to submit the Claim Form that is being distributed with this Settlement 
Notice and the required supporting documentation postmarked (if mailed), or online, no 
later than ____________, 2022.                                            
 WHAT ARE CLASS REPRESENTATIVES’ REASONS FOR THE SETTLEMENT?             
    26.  Class Representatives and Class Counsel believe that the claims asserted against 
Luckin and the other Defendants have merit. They recognize, however, the uncertainty, expense, 
and length of the continued proceedings inherent in the prosecution of their claims through the 
completion of fact and expert discovery, summary judgment, trial, appeals, and collection of any 
judgment presented significant risks to achieving a result superior to the Settlement.  
    27.  In particular, to the extent Plaintiffs were successful in their efforts to establish 
damages and liability against the Defendants, there existed a substantial risk that any judgment 
obtained against any of the solvent Defendants would be uncollectible. For instance, during the 
pendency of the Action, Luckin entered provisional liquidation proceedings in the Cayman Islands 
and secured a stay of this litigation against it by order of the United States Bankruptcy Court for 
the Southern District of New York (“Bankruptcy Stay”). Additionally, the Executive Defendants 
and Director Defendants are all foreign nationals and all but one, Thomas Meier, a Director 
Defendant who is a resident of Switzerland, were residents of the Peoples Republic of China 
(“PRC”) and did not enter an appearance in the litigation. Two of the six Underwriter Defendants 
were also based in the PRC.                                               
    28.  As noted above, the Underwriter Defendants, Luckin and Thomas Meier each filed 
motions to dismiss the Complaint and these motions were pending when the Settlement was 
reached. While the Bankruptcy Stay precluded the claims against Luckin from proceeding, even if 
the Class Representatives’ claims survived the Underwriter Defendants’ and Meier’s motions to 
dismiss, in whole or in part, Class Representatives faced challenges to proving, at summary 
judgment and trial, that these Defendants were liable for the alleged material misrepresentations 
and omissions made to the market during the Class Period and that, with respect to their Securities 
Act claims asserted against them, that the Underwriter Defendants and Mr. Meier, failed to 
adequately undertake adequate due diligence to have discovered the alleged fraud. The Securities 
Act claims were also limited to those investors who purchased in the Offerings or whose shares 
were traceable to the Offerings and in this regard, there were significant risks establishing that 
Class Members who purchased in the Offerings purchased shares traceable to the allegedly false 
or misleading registration statements for the Offerings. Moreover, with respect to the Executive 
Defendants who, in addition to Luckin, were the only Defendants subject to Plaintiffs’ Exchange 
Act claims, there were substantial risks to securing and enforcing a judgment against them, 
particularly where the Executive Defendants are residents of the PRC and had not appeared in the 
Action. There were also risks related to proving that Defendants’ alleged misrepresentations and 
omissions caused the alleged losses suffered by Class Representatives and the Class, and in 
establishing  damages.  Thus,  there  were  very  significant  risks  attendant  to  the  continued 
prosecution of the Action, including the risk of zero recovery.           
    29.  In light of these risks, the amount of the Settlement, and the immediacy of recovery 
to the Class, Class Representatives and Class Counsel believe that the proposed Settlement is fair, 
reasonable, and adequate, and in the best interests of the Class. Class Representatives and Class 
Counsel believe that the Settlement provides a favorable result for the Class, namely $175 million 
in cash (less the various deductions described in this Settlement Notice), as compared to the risk 
that the claims in the Action would produce a smaller, or no, recovery after a ruling on the pending 
motions to dismiss, full discovery, summary judgment, trial, and appeals, possibly years in the 
future.                                                                   
    30.  Luckin has denied and continues to deny the claims and allegations asserted against 
it and the other Defendants in the Action, including that they made false and misleading statements, 
they knew or recklessly disregarded material facts undermining their statements at the time they 
made them; and Class Representatives and Class Members suffered any damages or harm by the 
conduct alleged in the Action.  Luckin has nonetheless agreed to the Settlement solely to eliminate 
the uncertainty, burden, and expense of continued litigation.  The Settlement may not be construed 
as an admission of any wrongdoing by Luckin or the other Defendants in this or any other action 
or proceeding.                                                            
       WHAT MIGHT HAPPEN IF THERE WERE NO SETTLEMENT?                    
    31.  If there were no Settlement, the proceedings with respect to the Action against the 
Company would remain stayed by virtue of the order recognizing the Company’s Cayman Islands 
provisional liquidation (the “Recognition Order”) entered in the case with respect to the Company 
as debtor filed under Chapter 15 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code (the “Chapter 15 Case”).  If and 
when the JPLs were discharged by the Grand Court and the Chapter 15 Case were closed without 
a winding up order having been made, the stay that arose upon entry of the Recognition Order 
would be lifted and the Court would proceed to rule on the motions to dismiss in the Action against 
the Company.   If successful on the motions  to dismiss, Class  Representatives  would have 
proceeded with discovery.  If Class Representatives failed to establish any essential legal or factual 
element of their claims against the Company, neither Class Representatives nor the other members 
of the Class would recover anything from the Company.  Also, if the Company were successful in 
establishing any of its defenses at summary judgment, at trial, or on appeal, the Class could recover 
substantially less than the amount provided in the Settlement, or nothing at all. 
              HOW ARE CLASS MEMBERS AFFECTED BY                          
                THE ACTION AND THE SETTLEMENT?                           
    32.  As a Class Member, you are represented by Class Representatives and Class 
Counsel, unless you enter an appearance through counsel of your own choice and at your own 
expense. You are not required to retain your own counsel, but if you choose to do so, such counsel 
must file a notice of appearance on your behalf and must serve copies of his or her appearance on 
the attorneys listed in the section entitled, “When And Where Will The Court Decide Whether To 
Approve The Settlement?,” on page __ below.                               
    33.  If you are a Class Member and you wish to object to the Settlement, the Plan of 
Allocation, and/or Class Counsel’s motion for attorneys’ fees and Litigation Expenses, and if you 
did not previously exclude yourself from the Class in connection with Class Notice, you may 
present your objections by following the instructions in the section entitled, “When And Where 
Will The Court Decide Whether To Approve The Settlement?,” on page __ below. 
    34.  If you are a Class Member you will be bound by any orders issued by the Court. If 
the Settlement is approved, the Court will enter a judgment (“Judgment”). The Judgment will 
dismiss with prejudice the claims against Luckin and the other Defendants’ Released Parties and 
will provide that, upon the Effective Date of the Settlement, Class Representatives and each of the 
other  Class  Members,  on  behalf  of  themselves,  and  their  respective  heirs,  executors, 
administrators, predecessors, successors, and assigns, in their capacities as such, shall be deemed 
to have, and by operation of law and of the Judgment shall have, fully, finally, and forever 
compromised, settled, released, resolved, relinquished, waived, and discharged each and every 
Released Plaintiffs’ Claim (as defined in ¶ 35 below) against Luckin and the other Defendants’ 
Released Parties (as defined in ¶ 36 below), and shall forever be barred and enjoined from 
prosecuting any or all of the Released Plaintiffs’ Claims against any of the Defendants’ Released 
Parties in any jurisdiction.                                              
    35.  “Released Plaintiffs’ Claims” means  all claims and causes of action of every nature 
and description, whether known or Unknown Claims, accrued or unaccrued, in law or in equity, 
whether arising under federal, state, common or foreign law, whether direct, indirect, or derivative, 
that Class Representatives or any other member of the Class (a) asserted in the Complaint, or 
(b) could have asserted in any forum that arise out of, relate to, or are based upon the allegations, 
transactions, facts, matters or occurrences, representations or omissions involved, set forth, or 
referred to in the Complaint and relate to the purchase or acquisition of Luckin ADSs during the 
Class Period. Released Plaintiffs’ Claims do not include: (i) any claims relating to the enforcement 
of the Settlement; and (ii) any claims of any person or entity who or which submited a request for 
exclusion from the Class in connection with the Class Notice.             
    36.  “Defendants’ Released Parties” means Defendants, Haode Investment Inc., Primus 
Investments Fund, L.P., Summer Fame Limited, Lucky Cup Holdings Limited, Fortunate Cup 
Holdings Limited, Mayer Investments Fund, L.P., Chiang Sheung Lin, Richard Arthur, Cogency 
Global Inc., and Ernst & Young Hua Ming LLP, and each of their past, present and future affiliated 
persons and entities including but not limited to their beneficial owners, any entities under common 
control with any of them, their Immediate Families and their legal representatives (including court-
appointed liquidators), heirs, successors or assigns, and any entities in which a Defendants’ 
Released Party has a controlling interest or which has a direct or indirect controlling interest in a 
Defendants’ Released Party.                                               
    37.  “Unknown  Claims”  means  any  Released  Plaintiffs’  Claims  which  any  Class 
Representative or any other Class Member does not know or suspect to exist in his, her, or its favor 
at the time of the release of such claims, and any Released Defendants’ Claims which Luckin does 
not know or suspect to exist in its favor at the time of the release of such claims, which, if known 
by him, her, or it, might have materially affected his, her, or its decision(s) with respect to this 
Settlement. With respect to any and all Released Claims, the Settling Parties stipulate and agree 
that, upon the Effective Date of the Settlement, Class Representatives and Luckin shall expressly 
waive, and each of the other Class Members shall be deemed to have waived, and by operation of 
the Judgment shall have expressly waived, any and all provisions, rights, and benefits conferred 
by any law of any state or territory of the United States, or principle of common law or foreign 
law, which is similar, comparable, or equivalent to California Civil Code §1542, which provides: 
    A general release does not extend to claims that the creditor or releasing party does 
    not know or suspect to exist in his or her favor at the time of executing the release 
    and that, if known by him or her, would have materially affected his or her 
    settlement with the debtor or released party.                        
Class Representatives and Luckin acknowledge, and each of the other Class Members shall be 
deemed by operation of law to have acknowledged, that the foregoing waiver was separately 
bargained for and a key element of the Settlement.                        
    38.  Pursuant to the Judgment, upon the Effective Date of the Settlement, Luckin, on 
behalf of itself, and its heirs, executors, administrators, predecessors, successors, and assigns, in 
their capacities as such, shall be deemed to have, and by operation of law and of the Judgment 
shall have, fully, finally, and forever compromised, settled, released, resolved, relinquished, 
waived, and discharged each and every Released Defendants’ Claim (as defined in ¶ 39 below) 
against Class Representatives and the other Plaintiffs’ Released Parties (as defined in ¶ 40 below), 
and shall forever be barred and enjoined from prosecuting any or all of the Released Defendants’ 
Claims against any of the Plaintiffs’ Released Parties in any jurisdiction. This release shall not 
apply to any person or entity who or which submitted a request for exclusion from the Class that 
is listed on Appendix 1 to the Stipulation.                               
    39.  “Released Defendants’ Claims” means all claims and causes of action of every 
nature and description, whether known or Unknown Claims, whether arising under federal, state, 
common or foreign law, that arise out of or relate in any way to the institution, prosecution, or 
settlement of the claims against Defendants except for claims relating to the enforcement of the 
Settlement.                                                               
    40.  “Plaintiffs’ Released Parties” means (i) Class Representatives, Plaintiffs’ Counsel, 
and all other Class Members; (ii) the current and former parents, affiliates, subsidiaries, successors, 
predecessors, assigns, and assignees of each of the foregoing in (i); and (iii) the current and former 
officers,  directors,  Immediate  Family  members,  heirs,  trusts,  trustees,  executors,  estates, 
administrators,  beneficiaries,  agents,  affiliates,  insurers,  reinsurers,  predecessors,  successors, 
assigns, and advisors of each of the persons or entities listed in (i) and (ii), in their capacities as 
such.                                                                     
            HOW DO I PARTICIPATE IN THE SETTLEMENT?                      
                     WHAT DO I NEED TO DO?                               
    41.  To be eligible for a payment from the proceeds of the Settlement, you must be a 
member of the Class and you must timely complete and return the Claim Form with adequate 
supporting  documentation  postmarked  (if  mailed),  or  submitted  online  at 
www.LuckinCoffeeSecuritiesLitigation.com, no later than _____________, 2022. A Claim Form 
is included with this Settlement Notice, or you may obtain one from the website maintained by the 
Claims  Administrator,  www.LuckinCoffeeSecuritiesLitigation.com,  or  on  Class  Counsel’s 
websites, www.blbglaw.com and www.ktmc.com, or you may request that a Claim Form be mailed 
to you by calling the Claims Administrator toll free at 1-855-535-1824, or by emailing the Claims 
Administrator at info@LuckinCoffeeSecuritiesLitigation.com. Please retain all records of your 
ownership of and transactions in Luckin ADSs, as they may be needed to document your 
Claim. If you previously requested exclusion from the Class in connection with Class Notice or 
do not submit a timely and valid Claim Form, you will not be eligible to share in the Net Settlement 
Fund.                                                                     
                HOW MUCH WILL MY PAYMENT BE?                             
    42.  At this time, it is not possible to make any determination as to how much any 
individual Class Member may receive from the Settlement.                  
    43.  Pursuant to the Settlement, Luckin, on behalf of all Defendants’ Released Parties, 
shall pay or cause to be paid $175,000,000 in cash. The Settlement Amount will be deposited into 
an escrow account. The Settlement Amount plus any interest earned thereon is referred to as the 
“Settlement Fund.” If the Settlement is approved by the Court and the Effective Date occurs, the 
Net Settlement Fund will be distributed to Class Members who submit valid Claim Forms, in 
accordance with the proposed Plan of Allocation or such other plan of allocation as the Court may 
approve.                                                                  
    44.  The Net Settlement Fund will not be distributed unless and until the Court has 
approved the Settlement and a Plan of Allocation and that decision is affirmed on appeal (if any) 
and/or the time for any petition for rehearing, appeal, or review, whether by certiorari or otherwise, 
has expired. The Settlement also requires the approval of the Grand Court pursuant to Schedule 3, 
Part 1, paragraph 5 of the Cayman Islands Companies Act (2021 Revision). Luckin’s JPLs will 
seek sanction of the Settlement from the Grand Court as soon as reasonably possible. 
    45.  Neither Luckin, the other Defendants’ Released Parties, nor any other person or 
entity (including Luckin’s insurance carriers) who or which paid any portion of the Settlement 
Amount on their behalf are entitled to get back any portion of the Settlement Fund once the Court’s 
order or Judgment approving the Settlement becomes Final. Luckin and the other Defendants’ 
Released Parties shall not have any liability, obligation, or responsibility for the administration of 
the Settlement, the disbursement of the Net Settlement Fund, or the Plan of Allocation. 
    46.  Unless the Court otherwise orders, any Class Member who fails to submit a Claim 
Form postmarked (if mailed), or online, on or before _____________, 2022 shall be fully and 
forever barred from receiving payments pursuant to the Settlement but will in all other respects 
remain a Class Member and be subject to the provisions of the Stipulation, including the terms of 
any Judgment entered and the Releases given. This means that each Class Member releases the 
Released Plaintiffs’ Claims (as defined in ¶ 35 above) against the Defendants’ Released Parties 
(as defined in ¶ 36 above) and will be enjoined and prohibited from prosecuting any of the Released 
Plaintiffs’ Claims against any of the Defendants’ Released Parties whether or not such Class 
Member submits a Claim Form.                                              
    47.  Participants in and beneficiaries of any employee retirement and/or benefit plan 
(“Employee  Plan”)  should  NOT  include  any  information  relating  to  Luckin  ADSs 
purchased/acquired through an Employee Plan in any Claim Form they submit in this Action. They 
should include ONLY those eligible Luckin ADSs purchased/acquired during the Class Period 
outside of an Employee Plan. Claims based on any Employee Plan(s)’ purchases/acquisitions of 
eligible Luckin ADSs during the Class Period may be made by the Employee Plan(s)’ trustees.   
    48.  The Court has reserved jurisdiction to allow, disallow, or adjust on equitable 
grounds the Claim of any Class Member.                                    
    49.  Each Claimant shall be deemed to have submitted to the jurisdiction of the Court 
with respect to his, her, or its Claim Form.                              
    50.  Only Class Members will be eligible to share  in the distribution of the Net 
Settlement Fund. Persons and entities who are excluded from the Class by definition or who 
previously excluded themselves from the Class in connection with Class Notice will not be eligible 
to receive a distribution from the Net Settlement Fund and should not submit Claim Forms. 
    51.  Appendix A to this Notice sets forth the Plan of Allocation for allocating the 
Net Settlement Fund among Authorized Claimants, as proposed by Class Representatives. 
At the Settlement Hearing, Class Counsel will request the Court approve the Plan of 
Allocation. The Court may modify the Plan of Allocation, or approve a different plan of 
allocation, without further notice to the Class.                          
  WHAT PAYMENT ARE THE ATTORNEYS FOR THE SETTLEMENT CLASS                
            SEEKING?  HOW WILL THE LAWYERS BE PAID?                      
    52.  Class Counsel, on behalf of Plaintiffs’ Counsel, will apply to the Court for an award 
of attorneys’ fees and reimbursement or payment of Litigation Expenses. Class Counsel’s motion 
for attorneys’ fees will not exceed 25% of the Settlement Fund. Class Counsel BLB&G and KTMC 
have a fee or work sharing agreement to divide the total attorneys’ fees that the Court may award 
in amounts commensurate with their respective efforts and contributions in the litigation. In 
addition, Lead Plaintiffs have an agreement with bankruptcy counsel, Lowenstein Sandler, which 
provides that the fees for Lowenstein’s time will be paid consistent with any fee and/or expense 
application and award in the Court, as determined by Lead Counsel in their reasonable discretion.  
BLB&G also has a retention agreement with Lead Plaintiff Louisiana Sheriffs, which provides that 
Klausner Kaufman, additional fiduciary counsel for Louisiana Sheriffs, will work together with 
Class Counsel on this action, and BLB&G will compensate Klausner Kaufman for that work from 
the attorneys’ fees that the Court approves in an amount commensurate with Klausner Kaufman’s 
efforts and contributions in the litigation.  In addition, Class Counsel intend to apply for payment 
of Litigation Expenses incurred in connection with the prosecution and resolution of this Action 
in an amount not to exceed $1,000,000, plus interest. Class Counsel’s motion for attorneys’ fees 
and Litigation Expenses, which may include a request for reimbursement of the reasonable costs 
and expenses incurred by Class Representatives directly related to their representation of the Class 
in accordance with 15 U.S.C. § 78u-4(a)(4), will be filed by ________, 2022, and the Court will 
consider Class Counsel’s motion at the Settlement Hearing. A copy of Class Counsel’s motion for 
attorneys’  fees  and  Litigation  Expenses  will  be  available  for  review  at 
www.LuckinCoffeeSecuritiesLitigation.com once it is filed. Any award of attorneys’ fees and 
reimbursement or payment of Litigation Expenses, including any reimbursement of costs and 
expenses to Class Representatives, will be paid from the Settlement Fund prior to allocation and 
payment to Authorized  Claimants. Class Members are not personally  liable for  any such 
attorneys’ fees or expenses.                                              
WHEN AND WHERE WILL THE COURT DECIDE WHETHER TO APPROVE THE              
 SETTLEMENT?  DO I HAVE TO COME TO THE HEARING?  MAY I SPEAK AT          
          THE HEARING IF I DON’T LIKE THE SETTLEMENT?                    
    53.  Class Members do not need to attend the Settlement Hearing.  The Court will 
consider any submission made in accordance with the provisions below even if a Class 
Member does not attend the hearing. You can participate in the Settlement without attending 
the Settlement Hearing.                                                   
    54.  Please Note: The date and time of the Settlement Hearing may change without further 
written notice to the Class. In addition, the COVID-19 pandemic is a fluid situation that creates the 
possibility that the Court may decide to conduct the Settlement Hearing by video or telephonic 
conference, or otherwise allow Class Members to appear at the hearing by phone, without further 
written notice to the Class. In order to determine whether the date and time of the Settlement 
Hearing have changed, or whether Class Members must or may participate by phone or video, 
it  is  important  that  you  monitor  the  Court’s  docket  and  the  website  for  the  Action, 
www.LuckinCoffeeSecuritiesLitigation.com, before making any plans to attend the Settlement 
Hearing. Any updates regarding the Settlement Hearing, including any changes to the date or 
time of the hearing or updates regarding in-person or telephonic appearances at the hearing, 
will be posted to the website, www.LuckinCoffeeSecuritiesLitigation.com. Also, if the Court 
requires or allows Class Members to participate in the Settlement Hearing by telephone, the 
phone  number  for  accessing  the  telephonic  conference  will  be  posted  to  the  website, 
www.LuckinCoffeeSecuritiesLitigation.com.                                 
    55.  The Settlement Hearing will be held on _________, 2022 at __:__ _.m., before the 
Honorable John P. Cronan at the Daniel Patrick Moynihan United States Courthouse, 500 Pearl 
St., New York, NY 10007-1312, Courtroom 12D, or by telephone or videoconference (in the 
discretion of the Court). The Court reserves the right to approve the Settlement, the Plan of 
Allocation, Class Counsel’s motion for an award of attorneys’ fees and Litigation Expenses, and/or 
any other matter related to the Settlement at or after the Settlement Hearing without further notice 
to the members of the Class.                                              
    56.  Any Class Member may object to the Settlement, the Plan of Allocation, and/or 
Class Counsel’s motion for attorneys’ fees and Litigation Expenses. Objections must be in writing. 
You must file any written objection, together with copies of all other papers and briefs supporting 
the objection, with the Clerk’s Office at the United States District Court for the Southern District 
of New York at the address set forth below as well as serve copies on Class Counsel and Luckin’s 
Counsel at the addresses set forth below on or before ________, 2022.     
     Clerk’s Office       Lead Counsel        Luckin’s Counsel           
 United States District Court  Salvatore J. Graziano, Esq. Lawrence Portnoy, Esq. 
Southern District of New York  Bernstein Litowitz Berger &  Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP 
 Daniel Patrick Moynihan  Grossmann LLP      450 Lexington Avenue        
 United States Courthouse  1251 Avenue of the Americas  New York, NY 10017 
    500 Pearl Street   New York, NY 10020                                
 New York, NY 10007-1312                                                 
                        Sharan Nirmul, Esq.                              
                      Kessler Topaz Meltzer &                            
                          Check, LLP                                     
                      280 King of Prussia Road                           
                        Radnor, PA  19087                                
    57.  Any objections, filings, and other submissions by the objecting Class Member:  
(a) must identify the case name and docket number, In re Luckin Coffee Inc. Securities Litigation, 
Case No. 1:20-cv-01293-JPC-JLC (S.D.N.Y.); (b) must state the name, address, and telephone 
number of the person or entity objecting and must be signed by the objector; (c) must state with 
specificity the grounds for the Class Member’s objection, including any legal and evidentiary 
support the Class Member wishes to bring to the Court’s attention and whether the objection 
applies only to the objector, to a specific subset of the Class, or to the entire Class; and (d) must 
include documents sufficient to prove membership in the Class, including the number of Luckin 
ADSs that the objecting Class Member purchased/acquired and/or sold during the Class Period 
(i.e., May 17, 2019 through July 15, 2020, inclusive), as well as the transaction dates, number of 
ADSs, and prices of each such purchase/acquisition and sale. The objecting Class Member shall 
provide  documentation  establishing  membership  in  the  Class  through  copies  of  brokerage 
confirmation slips or monthly brokerage account statements, or an authorized statement from the 
objector’s  broker  containing  the  transactional  and  holding  information  found  in  a  broker 
confirmation slip or account statement.                                   
    58.  You  may  not  object  to  the  Settlement,  Plan  of  Allocation,  and/or  Class 
Counsel’s motion for an award of attorneys’ fees and Litigation Expenses if you previously 
excluded yourself from the Class in connection with Class Notice or if you are not a member 
of the Class.6                                                            
    59.  You may submit an objection without having to appear at the Settlement Hearing. 
You may not, however, appear at the Settlement Hearing to present your objection unless (1) you 
first submit a written objection in accordance with the procedures described above, (2) you first 
submit your notice of appearance in accordance with the procedures described below, or (3) the 
Court orders otherwise.                                                   
    60.  If you wish to be heard orally at the hearing in opposition to the approval of the 
Settlement, the Plan of Allocation, and/or Class Counsel’s motion for an award of attorneys’ fees 
and Litigation Expenses, and if you timely submit a written objection as described above, you must 
also file a notice of appearance with the Clerk’s Office and serve it on Class Counsel and Luckin’s 
Counsel at the addresses set forth in ¶ 56 above so that it is received on or before __________, 
2022.  Persons who intend to object and desire to present evidence at the Settlement Hearing must 
include in their written objection or notice of appearance the identity of any witnesses they may 
call to testify and exhibits they intend to introduce into evidence at the hearing. Such persons may 
be heard orally at the discretion of the Court.                           
    61.  You are not required to hire an attorney to represent you in making written 
objections or in appearing at the Settlement Hearing.  However, if you decide to hire an attorney, 
it will be at your own expense, and that attorney must file a notice of appearance with the Court 
and serve it on Class Counsel and Luckin’s Counsel at the addresses set forth in ¶ 56 above so that 
the notice is received on or before _____________, 2022.                  
    62.  Unless the Court orders otherwise, any Class Member who does not object in 
the manner described above will be deemed to have waived any objection and shall be forever 
foreclosed from making any objection to the proposed Settlement, the proposed Plan of 
Allocation, and/or Class Counsel’s motion for an award of attorneys’ fees and Litigation 
Expenses. Class Members do not need to appear at the Settlement Hearing or take any other 
action to indicate their approval.                                        
     WHAT IF I BOUGHT LUCKIN ADSs ON SOMEONE ELSE’S BEHALF?              
    63.  Please Note: If you previously provided the names and addresses of persons 
and entities on whose behalf you purchased or otherwise acquired Luckin ADSs from May 
17, 2019 through July 15, 2020, inclusive, in connection with the Class Notice, and (i) those 
names and addresses remain current and (ii) you have no additional names and addresses 
for potential Class Members to provide to the Claims Administrator, you need do nothing 
further at this time. The Claims Administrator will mail a Settlement Notice and Claim Form 
(“Settlement Notice Packet”) to the beneficial owners whose names and addresses were 
6    As this Class was previously certified and, in connection therewith, Class Members had 
the opportunity to exclude themselves from the Class, the Court has exercised its discretion not to 
allow a second opportunity for exclusion in connection with the settlement proceedings. 
previously provided in connection with the Class Notice. If you elected to mail the Class Notice 
directly to beneficial owners, you were advised that you must retain the mailing records for use in 
connection with any further notices that may be provided in the Action. If you elected this option, 
the Claims Administrator will forward the same number of Settlement Notice Packets to you to 
send to the beneficial owners. If you require more copies of the Settlement Notice Packet than you 
previously requested in connection with the Class Notice mailing, please contact the Claims 
Administrator, Epiq Class Action & Claims Solutions, Inc., toll free at 1-855-535-1824, and let 
them know how many additional packets you require. You must mail the Settlement Notice 
Packets to the beneficial owners within seven (7) calendar days of your receipt of the Settlement 
Notice Packets.                                                           
    64.  If you have not already provided the names and addresses for persons and entities 
on whose behalf you purchased or otherwise acquired Luckin ADSs from May 17, 2019 through 
July 15, 2020, inclusive, in connection with the Class Notice, or if you additional names or 
updated or changed information, then the Court has ordered that you must, WITHIN SEVEN (7) 
CALENDAR DAYS OF YOUR RECEIPT OF THIS SETTLEMENT NOTICE, either: (i) send 
the Settlement Notice Packet to all such beneficial owners of such Luckin ADSs, or (ii) send a list 
of the names and addresses of such beneficial owners to the Claims Administrator at In re Luckin 
Coffee Inc. Securities Litigation, c/o Epiq Class Action & Claims Solutions, Inc., P.O. Box 5887, 
Portland, OR 97228-5887, in which event the Claims Administrator shall promptly mail the 
Settlement Notice Packet to such beneficial owners. AS STATED ABOVE, IF YOU HAVE 
ALREADY  PROVIDED  THIS  INFORMATION  IN  CONNECTION  WITH  CLASS         
NOTICE,  UNLESS  THAT  INFORMATION  HAS  CHANGED  (E.G.,  BENEFICIAL      
OWNER HAS CHANGED ADDRESS), IT IS UNNECESSARY TO PROVIDE SUCH             
INFORMATION AGAIN.                                                        
    65.  Upon full and timely compliance with these directions, nominees who mail the 
Settlement Notice Packet to beneficial owners may seek reimbursement of their reasonable 
expenses actually incurred by providing the Claims Administrator with proper documentation 
supporting the expenses for which reimbursement is sought. Such properly documented expenses 
incurred by nominees in compliance with these directions shall be paid from the Settlement Fund, 
with any disputes as to the reasonableness or documentation of expenses incurred subject to review 
by the Court.                                                             
    66.  Copies of this Settlement Notice and the Claim Form may be obtained from the 
website, www.LuckinCoffeeSecuritiesLitigation.com, by calling the Claims Administrator toll 
free  at  1-855-535-1824,  or  by  emailing  the  Claims  Administrator  at 
info@LuckinCoffeeSecuritiesLitigation.com.                                
                   CAN I SEE THE COURT FILE?                             
          WHOM SHOULD I CONTACT IF I HAVE QUESTIONS?                     
    67.  This Settlement Notice contains only a summary of the terms of the Settlement. For 
the  terms  and  conditions  of  the  Settlement,  please  see  the  Stipulation  available  at 
www.LuckinCoffeeSecuritiesLitigation.com.  More  detailed  information  about  the  matters 
involved in this Action can be obtained by accessing the Court docket in this case, for a fee, through 
the  Court’s  Public  Access  to  Court  Electronic  Records  (PACER)  system  at 
https://ecf.nysd.uscourts.gov, or by visiting, during regular office hours, the Office of the Clerk, 
United States District Court for the Southern District of New York, Daniel Patrick Moynihan 
United States Courthouse, 500 Pearl Street, New York, NY 10007-1312. Additionally, copies of 
any related orders entered by the Court and certain other filings in this Action will be posted on 
the website, www.LuckinCoffeeSecuritiesLitigation.com.                    
 All inquiries concerning this Settlement Notice and the Claim Form should be directed to: 
                In re Luckin Coffee Inc. Securities Litigation           
                c/o Epiq Class Action & Claims Solutions, Inc.           
                          P.O. Box 5887                                  
                       Portland, OR 97228-5887                           
                          1-855-535-1824                                 
                info@LuckinCoffeeSecuritiesLitigation.com                
                www.LuckinCoffeeSecuritiesLitigation.com                 
                             and/or                                      
      Salvatore J. Graziano, Esq.        Sharan Nirmul, Esq.             
Bernstein Litowitz Berger & Grossmann LLP  Kessler Topaz Meltzer & Check, LLP 
     1251 Avenue of the Americas       280 King of Prussia Road          
        New York, NY 10020               Radnor, PA  19087               
PLEASE DO NOT CALL OR WRITE THE COURT, THE CLERK’S OFFICE, LUCKIN,        
          OR LUCKIN’S COUNSEL REGARDING THIS NOTICE.                     
Dated: __________, 2021                 By Order of the Court             
                                       United States District Court      
                                         Southern District of New York   
                          APPENDIX A                                     
  Proposed Plan of Allocation of Net Settlement Fund Among Authorized Claimants 
    1.   The objective of the Plan of Allocation is to equitably distribute the Net Settlement 
Fund to those Class Members who suffered economic losses as a proximate result of the alleged 
violations of the federal securities laws.  The calculations made pursuant to the Plan of Allocation 
are not intended to be estimates of, nor indicative of, the amounts that Class Members might have 
been able to recover after a trial.  Nor are the calculations pursuant to the Plan of Allocation 
intended to be estimates of the amounts that will be paid to Authorized Claimants pursuant to the 
Settlement.  The computations under the Plan of Allocation are only a method to weigh the claims 
of Claimants against one another for the purposes of making pro rata allocations of the Net 
Settlement Fund.                                                          
Exchange Act Loss Amounts                                                 
    2.   In developing the Plan of Allocation in conjunction with Lead Counsel, Lead 
Plaintiffs’ damages expert calculated the estimated amount of artificial inflation in the price of 
Luckin ADSs that was allegedly caused by Defendants’ alleged false and misleading statements 
and material omissions.  In calculating the estimated artificial inflation allegedly caused by 
Defendants’ alleged misrepresentations and omissions, Lead Plaintiffs’ damages expert considered 
price changes in Luckin ADSs in reaction to the public disclosures allegedly revealing the truth 
concerning Defendants’ alleged misrepresentations and material omissions, adjusting for price 
changes that were attributable to market or industry forces.              
    3.   For losses to be compensable damages under Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act, 
the disclosure of the allegedly misrepresented information must be the cause of the decline in the 
price of the Luckin ADSs.  In the Action, Lead Plaintiffs allege that Defendants made false 
statements and omitted material facts during the period from May 17, 2019 through July 15, 2020, 
inclusive, which had the effect of artificially inflating the price of Luckin ADSs.  Lead Plaintiffs 
further allege that corrective information was released to the market on through a series of 
corrective disclosures from January 31, 2020 through July 15, 2020, which partially removed 
artificial inflation from the price of Luckin ADSs on January 31, 2020, April 2-3, 2020, April 6, 
2020, May 20-28, 2020, June 19, 2020, June 22, 2020, June 23-24, 2020, June 26-July 1, 2020, 
and July 16, 2020.                                                        
    4.   Exchange Act Loss Amounts for transactions in Luckin ADSs are calculated under 
the Plan of Allocation based primarily on the difference in the amount of alleged artificial inflation 
in the price of Luckin ADSs at the time of purchase and the time of sale or the difference between 
the actual purchase price and sale price.  In order to have a Recognized Loss Amount under the 
Plan of Allocation, a Class Member who purchased or otherwise acquired Luckin ADSs prior to 
the first corrective disclosure, which occurred at 11:00 a.m. Eastern time on January 31, 2020, 
must have held his, her, or its Luckin ADS through at least 11:00 a.m. Eastern time on January 31, 
2020. A Class Member who purchased or otherwise acquired publicly traded Luckin ADSs from 
January 31, 2020 through and including July 15, 2020 must have held those ADSs through at least 
one subsequent alleged corrective disclosure date, when additional corrective information was 
released to the market and removed the remaining artificial inflation from the price of Luckin 
ADSs.                                                                     
Securities Act Loss Amounts                                               
    5.   The statutory formula for the calculation of compensable losses under the Securities 
Act (at Section 11(e) thereof) serves as the basis for calculating Securities Act Loss Amounts under 
the Plan.  Under this formula, April 2, 2020 (when the first complaint in this Action was filed) is 
deemed the “date of suit,” and October 20, 2021, the date that Stipulation was executed, is deemed 
the “date of judgment.”                                                   
       CALCULATION OF LUCKIN RECOGNIZED LOSS AMOUNTS                     
    6.   Based  on  the  formula  stated  below,  a  “Recognized  Loss  Amount”  will  be 
calculated for each purchase or acquisition of a Luckin ADS during the Class Period that is listed 
on the Claim Form and for which adequate documentation is provided.  The Recognized Loss 
Amount for each purchase or acquisition of a Luckin ADS during the Class Period is the greater 
of (a) the Exchange Act Loss Amount calculated under paragraph 7 below, if any, or (b) the 
Securities Act Loss Amount calculated under paragraph 8 or 9 below, if any.   
Exchange Act Loss Amounts                                                 
    7.   For each Luckin ADS purchased or otherwise acquired during the period from May 
17, 2019 through July 15, 2020, inclusive (including ADSs purchased in Luckin’s May 17, 2019 
Initial Public Offering or its January 10, 2020 Secondary Public Offering, or on the secondary 
market from May 17, 2019 through July 15, 2020), and:                     
   a) sold before 11:00 a.m. Eastern time on January 31, 2020, the Exchange Act Loss 
     Amount is zero;7                                                    
   b) sold from 11:00 a.m. Eastern time on January 31, 2020 through the close of trading on 
     July 15, 2020, the Exchange Act Loss Amount is the lesser of: (i) the amount of 
     artificial inflation per ADS on the date of purchase/acquisition as stated in Table A minus
     the amount of artificial inflation per ADS on the date of sale as stated in Table A; or 
     (ii) the purchase price minus the sale price;                       
   c) sold from July 16, 2020 through the close of trading on October 13, 2020, the Exchange 
      Act Loss Amount is equal to the least of: (i) the amount of artificial inflation per ADS 
      on the date of purchase/acquisition as stated in Table A; (ii) the purchase price minus 
      the sale price; or (iii) the purchase price minus the average closing price between July 
      16, 2020 and the date of sale as stated in Table B;                
   d) held as of the close of trading on October 13, 2020, the Exchange Act Loss Amount is 
      equal to the lesser of: (i) the amount of artificial inflation per ADS on the date of 
      purchase/acquisition as stated in Table A; or (ii) the purchase price minus $2.75.8
7    For purposes of this Plan of Allocation, the Claims Administrator will assume that any 
Luckin ADSs purchased/acquired or sold on January 31, 2020 at any price equal to or greater than 
$33.00  per  ADS  occurred  before  11:00  a.m.  Eastern  time,  and  that  any  Luckin  ADSs 
purchased/acquired or sold on January 31, 2021 at any price less than $33.00 per ADS occurred at 
or after 11:00 a.m.                                                       
8    Pursuant to Section 21D(e)(1) of the Exchange Act, “in any private action arising under 
this title in which the plaintiff seeks to establish damages by reference to the market price of a 
Securities Act Loss Amounts                                               
    8.   Purchases of Luckin ADSs In or Traceable to the May 17, 2019 Initial Public 
Offering (“IPO”):  For each Luckin ADS either (a) purchased directly in the May 17, 2019 Initial 
Public Offering, (b) purchased in the open market from May 20, 2019 through January 9, 2020, 
inclusive, or (c) purchased in the open market from January 10, 2020 through July 15, 2020, 
inclusive and for which the Claimant provides records establishing that those specific shares were 
originally issued in the IPO, and:                                        
    (a) sold before the close of trading on April 2, 2020, the Securities Act Loss Amount is 
        the purchase price per share (not to exceed $17.00) minus the sale price per share; 
    (b) sold after the close of trading on April 2, 2020 but before the close of trading on 
        October 20, 2021, the Securities Act Loss Amount is the purchase price per share 
        (not to exceed $17.00) minus the greater of: (i) the sale price per share or (ii) $1.38 
        (the value of Luckin ADSs on April 2, 2020, the date the lawsuit was filed, based on 
        the closing price that day less the remaining artificial inflation in the shares); 
    (c) held as of the close of trading on October 20, 2021, the Securities Act Loss Amount
        is the purchase price per share (not to exceed $17.00) minus $1.38. 
    9.   Purchases of Luckin ADSs In or Traceable to the January 10, 2020 Secondary 
Public Offering (“SPO”):  For each Luckin ADS either (a) purchased directly in the January 10, 
2020 SPO, or (b) purchased in the open market from January 10, 2020 through July 15, 2020, 
inclusive and for which the Claimant provides records establishing that those specific shares were 
originally issued in the SPO, and:                                        
    (a) sold before the close of trading on April 2, 2020, the Securities Act Loss Amount is 
        the purchase price per ADS (not to exceed $42.00) minus the sale price per share; 
    (b) sold after the close of trading on April 2, 2020 but before the close of trading on 
        October 20, 2021, the Securities Act Loss Amount is the purchase price per share 
        (not to exceed $42.00) minus the greater of: (i) the sale price per share or (ii) $1.38 
        (the value of Luckin ADSs on April 2, 2020, the date the lawsuit was filed, based on 
        the closing price that day less the remaining artificial inflation in the shares); 
    (c) held as of the close of trading on October 20, 2021, the Securities Act Loss Amount
        is the purchase price per share (not to exceed $42.00) minus $1.38. 
    10.  As noted above, for each purchase or acquisition of a Luckin ADS during the Class 
Period, a Recognized Loss Amount will be calculated which is the greater of: the Exchange Act 
security, the award of damages to the plaintiff shall not exceed the difference between the purchase 
or sale price paid or received, as appropriate, by the plaintiff for the subject security and the mean 
trading price of that security during the 90-day period beginning on the date on which the 
information correcting the misstatement or omission that is the basis for the action is disseminated 
to the market.” Consistent with the requirements of the Exchange Act, Recognized Loss Amounts 
are reduced to an appropriate extent by taking into account the closing prices of Luckin ADSs 
during the “90-day look-back period,” from July 16, 2020 through October 13, 2020. The mean 
(average) closing price for Luckin ADSs during this period was $2.75.     
Loss Amount, if any, or the Securities Act Loss Amount, if any.  If a Luckin Recognized Loss 
Amount calculates to a negative number, the Luckin Recognized Loss Amount for that transaction 
will be zero.                                                             
                    ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS                                
    11.  The Net Settlement Fund will be allocated among all Authorized Claimants whose 
Distribution Amount (defined in paragraph 17 below) is $10.00 or greater. 
    12.  Calculation of a Claimant’s “Recognized Claim”: A Claimant’s “Recognized 
Claim” will be the sum of his, her, or its Luckin Recognized Loss Amounts as calculated above 
with respect to all purchases or acquisitions of Luckin ADS during the Class Period.   
    13.  FIFO Matching:  If a Class Member made more than one purchase/acquisition or 
sale of Luckin ADS during the Class Period, all purchases/acquisitions and sales will be matched 
on  a  First  In,  First  Out  (“FIFO”)  basis.    Class  Period  sales  will  be  matched  against 
purchases/acquisitions in chronological order, beginning with the earliest purchase/acquisition 
made during the Class Period.                                             
    14.  “Purchase/Sale” Prices: For the purposes  of calculations  under this Plan of 
Allocation,  “purchase  price”  means  the  actual  price  paid,  excluding  all  fees,  taxes,  and 
commissions, and “sale price” means the actual amount received, not deducting any fees, taxes, 
and commissions. If a claimant receives Luckin ADSs through the conversion of another security, 
the “purchase” price applied to that acquisition shall be the closing market price of the Luckin 
ADSs on the date they are received.                                       
    15.  “Purchase/Sale” Dates: Purchases, acquisitions, and sales of Luckin ADSs will 
be deemed to have occurred on the “contract” or “trade” date as opposed to the “settlement” or 
“payment” date. Moreover, the receipt or grant by gift, inheritance, or operation of law of Luckin 
ADSs during the Class Period shall not be deemed an eligible purchase, acquisition, or sale, nor 
shall the receipt or grant be deemed an assignment of any claim relating to the ADSs unless (i) the 
donor or decedent purchased or acquired the Luckin ADS during the Class Period; (ii) the 
instrument of gift or assignment specifically provides that it is intended to transfer such rights; and 
(iii) no Claim was submitted by or on behalf of the donor, on behalf of the decedent, or by anyone 
else with respect to those shares.                                        
    16.  Short Sales:  The date of covering a “short sale” is deemed to be the date of 
purchase of the Luckin ADS.  The date of a “short sale” is deemed to be the date of sale of the 
Luckin ADS.  “Short sales” and the purchases covering “short sales” shall not be entitled to 
recovery under the Plan of Allocation.                                    
    17.  Derivatives  and  Options:    The  only  security  eligible  to  participate  in  the 
Settlement are Luckin ADSs.  Option contracts or any other derivative securities are not securities 
eligible to participate in the Settlement.  With respect to Luckin ADSs purchased or sold through 
the exercise of an option, the purchase/sale date of the Luckin ADS is the exercise date of the 
option and the purchase/sale price is the closing market price of the Luckin ADSs on the date of 
exercise.                                                                 
    18.  Determination  of  Distribution  Amount:    The  Net  Settlement  Fund will  be 
distributed to Authorized Claimants on a pro rata basis based on the relative size of their 
Recognized  Claims.    Specifically,  a  “Distribution  Amount”  will  be  calculated  for  each 
Authorized Claimant, which shall be the Authorized Claimant’s Recognized Claim divided by the 
total Recognized Claims of all Authorized Claimants, multiplied by the total amount in the Net 
Settlement Fund.                                                          
    19.  If an Authorized Claimant’s Distribution Amount calculates to less than $10.00, it 
will not be included in the calculations and no distribution will be made to that Authorized 
Claimant.                                                                 
    20.  After the initial distribution of the Net Settlement Fund, the Claims Administrator 
will make reasonable and diligent efforts to have Authorized Claimants cash their distribution 
checks.  To the extent any monies remain in the Net Settlement Fund after the initial distribution, 
if Lead Counsel, in consultation with the Claims Administrator, determine that it is cost-effective 
to do so, the Claims Administrator, no less than seven (7) months after the initial distribution, will 
conduct another distribution of the funds remaining after payment of any unpaid fees and expenses 
incurred in administering the Settlement, including for such distribution, to Authorized Claimants 
who have cashed their initial distributions and who would receive at least $10.00 from such 
distribution.  Additional distributions to Authorized Claimants who have cashed their prior checks 
and who would receive at least $10.00 on such additional distributions may occur thereafter if 
Lead  Counsel,  in  consultation  with  the  Claims  Administrator,  determine  that  additional 
distributions, after the deduction of any additional fees and expenses incurred in administering the 
Settlement, including for such further distributions, would be cost-effective. At such time as it is 
determined that the further distribution of funds remaining in the Net Settlement Fund is not cost-
effective, the remaining balance will be contributed to one or more non-sectarian, not-for-profit, 
501(c)(3) organizations to be selected by Lead Counsel and approved by the Court. 
    21.  Payment pursuant to the Plan of Allocation, or such other plan of allocation as may 
be approved by the Court, will be conclusive against all Claimants.  No person or entity shall have 
any claim against Lead Plaintiffs, Lead Counsel, the Claims Administrator, or any other agent 
designated by Lead Counsel, or Defendants’ Releasees and/or their respective counsel, arising 
from distributions made substantially in accordance with the Stipulation, the plan of allocation 
approved by the Court, or any order of the Court.  Lead Plaintiffs and Defendants, and their 
respective counsel, and all other Releasees shall have no liability whatsoever for the investment or 
distribution of the Settlement Fund or the Net Settlement Fund, the plan of allocation, or the 
determination, administration, calculation, or payment of any claim or nonperformance of the 
Claims Administrator, the payment or withholding of Taxes (including interest and penalties) 
owed by the Settlement Fund, or any losses incurred in connection therewith  
    22.  The Plan of Allocation set forth herein is the plan that is being proposed to the 
Court for its approval by Lead Plaintiffs after consultation with Lead Plaintiffs’ damages expert.  
The Court may approve this Plan as proposed or it may modify the Plan of Allocation without 
further notice to the Class.  Any Orders regarding any modification of the Plan of Allocation will 
be posted on the case website, www.LuckinCoffeeSecuritiesLitigation.com.  
                    TABLE A                                      
            Estimated Artificial Inflation in                    
Luckin ADSs from May 17, 2019 through and including July 15, 2020 
                                       Artificial                
             Date Range               Inflation Per              
                                      Luckin ADS                 
      May 17, 2019 – January 30, 2020   $29.08                   
      January 31, 2020 – April 1, 2020  $25.96                   
       April 2, 2020 – April 5, 2020      $5.02                  
       April 6, 2020 – May 19, 2020       $3.81                  
       May 20, 2020 – June 18, 2020       $1.33                  
            June 19, 2020                 $1.16                  
       June 20, 2020 – June 22, 2020      $0.53                  
       June 23, 2020 – June 25, 2020      $0.48                  
       June 26, 2020 – July 15, 2020      $0.13                  
         July 16, 2020 and later          $0.00                  
                          TABLE B                                      
              90-Day Look-Back Table for Luckin ADSs                   
         (Average Closing Price: July 16, 2020 – October 13, 2020)     
                   Average                           Average           
                 Closing Price                     Closing Price       
         Closing                          Closing                      
Sale Date            from        Sale Date             from             
          Price                            Price                       
                 July 16, 2020                     July 16, 2020       
                  through Date                     through Date        
7/16/2020  2.97       2.97       8/31/2020  3.11       2.40             
7/17/2020  2.68       2.83       9/1/2020   2.95       2.41             
7/20/2020  2.50       2.72       9/2/2020   2.74       2.42             
7/21/2020  2.81       2.74       9/3/2020   2.51       2.42             
7/22/2020  2.70       2.73       9/4/2020   2.51       2.43             
7/23/2020  2.66       2.72       9/8/2020   2.53       2.43             
7/24/2020  2.55       2.70       9/9/2020   2.43       2.43             
7/27/2020  2.56       2.68       9/10/2020  2.29       2.43             
7/28/2020  2.48       2.66       9/11/2020  2.35       2.42             
7/29/2020  2.39       2.63       9/14/2020  2.36       2.42             
7/30/2020  2.24       2.59       9/15/2020  2.36       2.42             
7/31/2020  2.40       2.58       9/16/2020  2.54       2.42             
8/3/2020  2.42       2.57       9/17/2020   2.50      2.43             
8/4/2020  2.36       2.55       9/18/2020   2.59      2.43             
8/5/2020  2.29       2.53       9/21/2020   2.60      2.43             
8/6/2020  2.25       2.52       9/22/2020   2.94      2.44             
8/7/2020  2.12       2.49       9/23/2020   2.77      2.45             
8/10/2020  2.41       2.49       9/24/2020   2.89      2.46             
8/11/2020  2.34       2.48       9/25/2020   2.88      2.47             
8/12/2020  2.27       2.47       9/28/2020   2.91      2.48             
8/13/2020  2.20       2.46       9/29/2020   2.94      2.48             
8/14/2020  2.23       2.45       9/30/2020   3.07      2.49             
8/17/2020  2.26       2.44       10/1/2020   3.14      2.51             
8/18/2020  2.25       2.43       10/2/2020   3.39      2.52             
8/19/2020  2.28       2.42       10/5/2020   4.10      2.55             
8/20/2020  2.20       2.42       10/6/2020   4.62      2.59             
8/21/2020  2.17       2.41       10/7/2020   5.66      2.64             
8/24/2020  2.13       2.40       10/8/2020   4.82      2.67             
8/25/2020  2.13       2.39       10/9/2020   4.23      2.70             
8/26/2020  2.11       2.38       10/12/2020  4.13      2.72             
8/27/2020  2.12       2.37       10/13/2020  4.60      2.75             
8/28/2020  2.50       2.37                                              
Exhibit 2                                              
                                                         Exhibit 2       
                In re Luckin Coffee Inc. Securities Litigation           
                   Toll-Free Number:  1-855-535-1824                     
             Email:  info@LuckinCoffeeSecuritiesLitigation.com           
            Website:  www.LuckinCoffeeSecuritiesLitigation.com           
                  PROOF OF CLAIM                                         
               AND RELEASE FORM                                          
To be eligible to receive a payment from the Settlement, you must complete and sign this Claim 
Form  and  mail  it  by  first-class  mail  to  the  address  below,  or  submit  it  online  at 
www.LuckinCoffeeSecuritiesLitigation.com,  with  supporting  documentation,  postmarked  (or 
received) no later than ________________, 2022.                           
    Mail to:                                                             
             In re Luckin Coffee Inc. Securities Litigation              
            c/o Epiq Class Action & Claims Solutions, Inc.               
                         P.O. Box 5887                                   
                     Portland, OR 97228-5887                             
Failure to submit your Claim Form by the date specified will subject your claim to rejection and 
may preclude you from being eligible to receive a payment from the Settlement. 
Submit your Claim Form only to the Claims Administrator at the address set forth above. 
   TABLE OF CONTENTS                                  PAGE #             
   PART I – CLAIMANT INFORMATION                           2             
   PART II – GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS                          3             
   PART III – SCHEDULE OF TRANSACTIONS IN                                
           LUCKIN AMERICAN DEPOSITORY SHARES               6             
   PART IV – RELEASE OF CLAIMS AND SIGNATURE     8                       
              PART I – CLAIMANT INFORMATION                              
The Claims Administrator will use this information for all communications regarding this Claim 
Form.  If this information changes, you MUST notify the Claims Administrator in writing at the 
address above.  Complete names of all persons and entities must be provided. 
Beneficial Owner’s Name                                                   
First Name                    Last Name                                   
Joint Beneficial Owner’s Name (if applicable)                             
First Name                    Last Name                                   
If this claim is submitted for an IRA, and if you would like any check that you MAY be eligible to receive made payable to the 
IRA, please include “IRA” in the “Last Name” box above (e.g., Jones IRA). 
Entity Name (if the Beneficial Owner is not an individual)                
Name of Representative, if applicable (executor, administrator, trustee, c/o, etc.), if different from Beneficial Owner 
Last 4 digits of Social Security Number or Taxpayer Identification Number 

Street Address                                                            
City                                                 State/Province     Zip Code 

Foreign Postal Code (if applicable)    Foreign Country (if applicable)    

Telephone Number (Day)             Telephone Number (Evening)             
Email Address (email address is not required, but if you provide it you authorize the Claims Administrator to use it in providing 
you with information relevant to this claim)                              
Type of Beneficial Owner:                                                 
Specify one of the following:                                             
  Individual(s)   Corporation  UGMA Custodian IRA                        
  Partnership    Estate       Trust       Other (describe: ___________________) 
              PART II – GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS                             
    1.   It is important that you completely read and understand the Notice of (I) Proposed 
Settlement; (II) Settlement Hearing; and (III) Motion for Attorneys’ Fees and Litigation Expenses 
(the “Settlement Notice”) that accompanies this Claim Form, including the Plan of Allocation of 
the Net Settlement Fund set forth in the Settlement Notice.  The Settlement Notice describes the 
proposed Settlement, how Class Members are affected by the Settlement, and the manner in which 
the Net Settlement Fund will be distributed if the Settlement and Plan of Allocation are approved.  
The Settlement Notice also contains the definitions of many of the defined terms (which are 
indicated by initial capital letters) used in this Claim Form.  By signing and submitting this Claim 
Form, you will be certifying that you have read and that you understand the Settlement Notice, 
including the terms of the releases described therein and provided for herein. 
    2.   This Claim Form is directed to all persons and entities (and their beneficiaries) 
who purchased or otherwise acquired the American Depository Shares (“ADSs”) of Luckin 
Coffee Inc. (“Luckin”) during the Class Period (from May 17, 2019 through July 15, 2020, 
inclusive) (the “Class”).  Included in the Class are all persons and entities who purchased Luckin 
ADSs on the open market and/or in or traceable to the May 17, 2019 Initial Public Offering (“IPO”) 
and January 10, 2020 Secondary Public Offering (“SPO”) during the Class Period. Certain persons 
and entities are excluded from the Class by definition as set forth in ¶ 25 of the Settlement Notice.   
    3.   By submitting this Claim Form, you will be making a request to receive a payment 
from the Settlement described in the Settlement Notice.  IF YOU ARE NOT A CLASS MEMBER 
(see the definition of the Class on page [__] of the Settlement Notice, which sets forth who is 
included in and who is excluded from the Class), OR IF YOU, OR SOMEONE ACTING ON 
YOUR BEHALF, SUBMITTED A REQUEST FOR EXCLUSION FROM THE CLASS, DO         
NOT  SUBMIT  A  CLAIM  FORM.    YOU  MAY  NOT,  DIRECTLY  OR  INDIRECTLY, 
PARTICIPATE IN THE SETTLEMENT IF YOU ARE NOT A CLASS MEMBER.  THUS,       
IF YOU ARE EXCLUDED FROM THE CLASS, ANY CLAIM FORM THAT YOU SUBMIT,       
OR THAT MAY BE SUBMITTED ON YOUR BEHALF, WILL NOT BE ACCEPTED.            
    4.   Submission of this Claim Form does not guarantee that you will be eligible to 
receive a payment from the Settlement, if it is approved.  The distribution of the payments 
to eligible purchasers of Luckin ADSs will be governed by the Plan of Allocation set forth in 
the Settlement Notice, if it is approved by the Court, or by such other plan of allocation as 
the Court approves.                                                       
    5.   Use the Schedule of Transactions in Part III of this Claim Form to supply all 
required details of your transaction(s) in, and holdings of, Luckin ADSs.  On this schedule, provide 
all of the requested information with respect to your holdings, purchases, acquisitions, and sales 
of Luckin ADSs (including free transfers and deliveries), whether such transactions resulted in a 
profit  or a loss.  Failure to report all transaction and holding information during the 
requested time period may result in the rejection of your claim.          
    6.   Please note:  Only Luckin ADSs purchased or acquired from May 17, 2019 through 
July 15, 2020, inclusive, are eligible for payment under the Settlement.  However, sales of Luckin 
ADSs during the period from July 16, 2020 through and including the close of trading on October 
20, 2020, will be used for purposes of calculating your claim under the Plan of Allocation.  
Therefore, in order for the Claims Administrator to be able to balance your claim, the requested 
purchase/acquisition and sale/disposition information during this period must also be provided. 
    7.   You are required to submit genuine and sufficient documentation for all of your 
transactions in and holdings of Luckin ADSs as set forth in the Schedule of Transactions in Part 
III of this Claim Form.  Documentation may consist of copies of brokerage confirmation slips or 
monthly brokerage account statements, or an authorized statement from your broker containing 
the transactional and holding information found in a broker confirmation slip or account statement.  
The Settling Parties and the Claims Administrator do not independently have information about 
your  investments  in  Luckin  ADSs.    IF  SUCH  DOCUMENTS  ARE  NOT  IN  YOUR 
POSSESSION,  PLEASE  OBTAIN  COPIES  OF  THE  DOCUMENTS  OR  EQUIVALENT   
DOCUMENTS FROM YOUR BROKER.  FAILURE TO SUPPLY THIS DOCUMENTATION         
MAY RESULT  IN  THE REJECTION OF YOUR CLAIM.  DO NOT SEND ORIGINAL        
DOCUMENTS.    Please  keep  a  copy  of  all  documents  that  you  send  to  the  Claims 
Administrator.  Also, do not highlight any portion of the Claim Form or any supporting 
documents.                                                                
    8.   Traceability of Luckin ADSs to Public Offerings in the Class Period. Public 
offerings of Luckin ADSs occurred during the Class Period on or about (i) May 17, 2019 (the 
IPO); and (ii) January 10, 2020 (the SPO).  Claimants who purchased Luckin ADSs directly in one 
or both of the offerings, or who purchased shares “traceable” to one or both of the offerings (as 
opposed to generally on the open market) may be entitled to additional compensation under the 
Plan of Allocation. All Luckin ADSs purchased from May 17, 2019 through January 9, 2020 are 
assumed to be traceable to the IPO.  However, if you purchased Luckin ADSs from January 10, 
2020 through July 15, 2020 that were not purchased directly in the SPO but that you believe are 
specifically traceable to Luckin ADSs that were issued in the IPO or SPO, you must submit 
documentation with your Claim Form showing that the specific ADSs you purchased were shares 
issued in the IPO or SPO.                                                 
    9.   Use Part I of this Claim Form entitled “CLAIMANT INFORMATION” to identify 
the beneficial owner(s) of the Luckin ADSs.  The complete name(s) of the beneficial owner(s) 
must be entered.  If you held the Luckin ADSs in your own name, you were the beneficial owner 
as well as the record owner.  If, however, your Luckin ADSs were registered in the name of a third 
party, such as a nominee or brokerage firm, you were the beneficial owner of the ADSs, but the 
third party was the record owner.  The beneficial owner, not the record owner, must sign this Claim 
Form to be eligible to participate in the Settlement.  If there were joint beneficial owners, each 
must sign this Claim Form and their names must appear as “Claimants” in Part I of this Claim 
Form.                                                                     
    10.  One Claim should be submitted for each separate legal entity or separately 
managed account.  Separate Claim Forms should be submitted for each separate legal entity (e.g., 
an individual should not combine his or her IRA holdings and transactions with holdings and 
transactions made solely in the individual’s name).  Generally, a single Claim Form should be 
submitted on behalf of one legal entity including all holdings and transactions made by that entity 
on one Claim Form.  However, if a single person or legal entity had multiple accounts that were 
separately managed, separate Claims may be submitted for each such account.  The Claims 
Administrator reserves the right to request information on all the holdings and transactions in 
Luckin ADSs made on behalf of a single beneficial owner                   
    11.  Agents, executors, administrators, guardians, and trustees must complete and sign 
the Claim Form on behalf of persons represented by them, and they must:   
         (a)  expressly state the capacity in which they are acting;     
         (b)   identify the name; account number; last four digits of the Social Security 
              Number,  taxpayer  identification  number,  or  comparable  identification 
              number for non-U.S. claimants; address; and telephone number of the 
              beneficial owner of (or other person or entity on whose behalf they are 
              acting with respect to) the Luckin ADSs; and               
         (c)    furnish herewith evidence of their authority to bind to the Claim Form the 
              person or entity on whose behalf they are acting.  (Authority to complete 
              and sign a Claim Form cannot be established by stockbrokers demonstrating 
              only that they have discretionary authority to trade securities in another 
              person’s accounts.)                                        
    12.  By submitting a signed Claim Form, you will be swearing that you: 
         (a)  own(ed) the Luckin ADSs you have listed in the Claim Form; or 
         (b)  are expressly authorized to act on behalf of the owner thereof. 
    13.  By submitting a signed Claim Form, you will be swearing to the truth of the 
statements contained therein and the genuineness of the documents attached thereto, subject to 
penalties of perjury under the laws of the United States of America.  The making of false 
statements, or the submission of forged or fraudulent documentation, will result in the rejection of 
your claim and may subject you to civil liability or criminal prosecution. 
    14.  Payments to eligible Authorized Claimants pursuant to the Plan of Allocation will 
be made after final approval of the Settlement and any appeals from such approval, and after the 
completion of all claims processing.  The claims process will take substantial time to complete 
fully and fairly.  Please be patient.                                     
    15.  PLEASE NOTE:  As set forth in the Plan of Allocation, each Authorized Claimant 
shall receive his, her, or its pro rata share of the funds available under the Settlement.  If the 
prorated payment to any Authorized Claimant calculates to less than $10.00, it will not be included 
in the calculation and no distribution will be made to that Authorized Claimant. 
    16.  If you have questions concerning the Claim Form, or need additional copies of the 
Claim Form, you may contact the Claims Administrator, Epiq Class Action & Claims Solutions, 
Inc.,  at  the  address  on  the  first  page  of  this  Claim  Form,  by  email  at 
info@LuckinCoffeeSecuritiesLitigation.com, or by toll-free phone at 1-855-535-1824, or you can 
visit the website, www.LuckinCoffeeSecuritiesLitigation.com, where copies of the Claim Form 
and other relevant documents are available for downloading.               
    17.  NOTICE REGARDING ELECTRONIC FILES:  Certain claimants with large 
numbers of transactions may request, or may be requested, to submit information regarding their 
transactions in electronic files.  To obtain the mandatory electronic filing requirements and file 
layout, you may visit the Settlement website at www.LuckinCoffeeSecuritiesLitigation.com or 
you  may  email  the  Claims  Administrator’s  electronic  filing  department  at 
info@LuckinCoffeeSecuritiesLitigation.com.  Any file not in accordance with the required 
electronic filing format will be subject to rejection.  The complete name of the beneficial owner 
of the securities must be entered where called for (see ¶ 9 above).  No electronic files will be 
considered to have been submitted unless the Claims Administrator issues an email to that effect.  
Do not assume that your file has been received until you receive this email.  If you do not 
receive such an email within 10 days of your submission, you should contact the electronic 
filing department at info@LuckinCoffeeSecuritiesLitigation.com to inquire about your file 
and confirm it was received.                                              
                    IMPORTANT:  PLEASE NOTE                              
YOUR   CLAIM  IS  NOT  DEEMED    FILED  UNTIL  YOU   RECEIVE  AN          
ACKNOWLEDGEMENT     POSTCARD.    THE  CLAIMS  ADMINISTRATOR  WILL         
ACKNOWLEDGE RECEIPT OF YOUR CLAIM FORM WITHIN 60 DAYS OF YOUR             
SUBMISSION.  IF YOU DO NOT RECEIVE AN ACKNOWLEDGEMENT POSTCARD            
WITHIN 60 DAYS, CONTACT THE CLAIMS ADMINISTRATOR TOLL FREE AT 1-          
855-535-1824.                                                             
          PART III – SCHEDULE OF TRANSACTIONS IN LUCKIN ADSs                   
     Use this section to provide information on your holdings and trading of Luckin ADSs during the 
     requested time periods.  Please include proper documentation with your Claim Form as described 
     in detail in Part II – General Instructions, ¶ 7 above.                   
1.  PURCHASES/ACQUISITIONS FROM MAY 17, 2019 THROUGH JULY 15, 2020, INCLUSIVE – Separately list 
each and every purchase or acquisition (including free receipts) of Luckin ADSs from May 17, 2019 through and including 
the close of trading on July 15, 2020.  Include Luckin ADSs purchased in Luckin’s May 17, 2019 Initial Public Offering 
and January 10, 2020 Secondary Public Offering and Luckin ADSs purchased on the open market from May 17, 2019 
through July 15, 2020.  (Must be documented.)                                   
 Date of Purchase/  Number of ADSs  Purchase   Total Purchase Price  Were the  Confirm 
   Acquisition   Purchased/  Price Per ADS (excluding any fees,  shares  Proof of 
(List Chronologically) Acquired           commissions, and  purchased in  Purchase/ 
 (Month/Day/Year)                             taxes)     or traceable to  Acquisition 
                                                         the May 2019  Enclosed 
                                                        IPO or the Jan.        
                                                          2020 SPO?            
     /       /             $            $                                    
     /       /             $            $                                    
     /       /             $            $                                    
     /       /             $            $                                    
     /       /             $            $                                    
2.  PURCHASES/ACQUISITIONS FROM JULY 16, 2020 THROUGH OCTOBER 20, 2021, INCLUSIVE – State 
the total number of Luckin ADSs purchased or acquired (including free receipts) from July 16, 2020 through the close of 
trading on October 20, 2021.  If none, write “zero” or “0.”1  ____________________
3.  SALESFROM MAY 17, 2019 THROUGH OCTOBER 20, 2021 – Separately list each and every sale  IF NONE, 
or disposition (including free deliveries) of Luckin ADSs from May 17, 2019 through and including the  CHECK 
close of trading on October 20, 2021.  (Must be documented.)          HERE      
                                                                              
   Date of Sale  Number of    Sale Price        Total Sale Price    Confirm    
(List Chronologically) ADSs Sold Per ADS  (not deducting any fees, commissions,  Proof 
 (Month/Day/Year)                                 and taxes)         of Sale   
                                                                    Enclosed   
     /       /             $            $                                     
     /       /             $            $                                     
     /       /             $            $                                     
   1Please note:  Information requested with respect to your purchases and acquisitions of Luckin ADSs from July 
   16, 2020 through the close of trading on October 20, 2021 is needed in order to balance your claim; purchases 
   and acquisitions during this period, however, are not eligible under the Settlement and will not be used for 
   purposes of calculating your Recognized Claim under the Plan of Allocation. 
     /       /             $            $                                     
     /       /             $            $                                     
4.  HOLDINGS AS OF OCTOBER 20, 2021 – State the total number of Luckin ADSs held as of the close  Confirm 
of trading on October 20, 2021.  (Must be documented.)  If none, write “zero” or “0.”    ________________  Proof of 
                                                                     Position  
                                                                    Enclosed   
                                                                              
IF YOU REQUIRE ADDITIONAL SPACE FOR THE SCHEDULE ABOVE, ATTACH EXTRA SCHEDULES IN 
THE SAME FORMAT.  PRINT THE BENEFICIAL OWNER’S FULL NAME AND LAST FOUR DIGITS OF 
SOCIAL SECURITY/TAXPAYER IDENTIFICATION NUMBER ON EACH ADDITIONAL PAGE.  IF YOU DO 
ATTACH EXTRA SCHEDULES, CHECK THIS BOX.                                         
        PART IV - RELEASE OF CLAIMS AND SIGNATURE                        
YOU MUST ALSO READ THE RELEASE AND CERTIFICATION BELOW AND SIGN          
                 ON PAGE [__] OF THIS CLAIM FORM.                        
I (we) hereby acknowledge that, pursuant to the terms set forth in the Stipulation, without further action by 
anyone, upon the Effective Date of the Settlement, I (we), on behalf of myself (ourselves) and my (our) 
(the claimant(s)’) heirs, executors, administrators, predecessors, successors, and assigns, in their capacities 
as such, shall be deemed to have, and by operation of law and of the judgment shall have, fully, finally, and 
forever compromised, settled, released, resolved, relinquished, waived, and discharged each and every 
Released Plaintiffs’ Claim against the Settling Defendants and the other Defendants’ Released Parties, and 
shall forever be barred and enjoined from prosecuting any or all of the Released Plaintiffs’ Claims against 
any of the Defendants’ Released Parties.                                  
CERTIFICATION                                                             
By signing and submitting this Claim Form, the claimant(s) or the person(s) who represent(s) the 
claimant(s) agree(s) to the release above and certifies (certify) as follows: 
    1.   that I (we) have read and understand the contents of the Settlement Notice and this Claim 
Form, including the releases provided for in the Settlement and the terms of the Plan of Allocation; 
    2.   that the claimant(s) is a (are) Class Member(s), as defined in the Settlement Notice, is 
(are) not excluded by definition from the Class as set forth in the Settlement Notice and did not submit a 
request for exclusion from the Class;                                     
    3.   that I (we) own(ed) the Luckin ADSs identified in the Claim Form and have not assigned 
the claim against any of the Settling Defendants or any of the other Defendants’ Released Parties to 
another, or that, in signing and submitting this Claim Form, I (we) have the authority to act on behalf of 
the owner(s) thereof;                                                     
    4.   that the claimant(s) has (have) not submitted any other claim covering the same purchases 
of Luckin ADSs and knows (know) of no other person having done so on the claimant’s (claimants’) 
behalf;                                                                   
    5.   that the claimant(s) submit(s) to the jurisdiction of the Court with respect to claimant’s 
(claimants’) claim and for purposes of enforcing the releases set forth herein;   
    6.   that I (we) agree to furnish such additional information with respect to this Claim Form 
as Lead Counsel, the Claims Administrator, or the Court may require;      
    7.   that the claimant(s) waive(s) the right to trial by jury, to the extent it exists, and agree(s) 
to the determination by the Court of the validity or amount of this claim, and waives any right of appeal 
or review with respect to such determination;                             
    8.   that should Luckin determine in its absolute discretion that the Settlement should also be 
implemented in the Cayman Islands by way of a scheme of arrangement promulgated under section 86 of 
the Cayman Islands Companies Act 1981 (the “Scheme”), the claimant(s) appoint(s) Sjunde AP-Fonden 
and Louisiana Sheriff’s Pension & Relief Fund as its/their proxy to vote in favor of the Scheme at all 
meetings convened for the purpose of approving the Scheme;                
    9.   that I (we) acknowledge that the claimant(s) will be bound by and subject to the terms of 
any judgment(s) that may be entered in the Action; and                    
    10.  that the claimant(s) is (are) NOT subject to backup withholding under the provisions of 
Section 3406(a)(1)(C) of the Internal Revenue Code because (i) the claimant(s) is (are) exempt from 
backup withholding or (ii) the claimant(s) has (have) not been notified by the IRS that he, she, or it is 
subject to backup withholding as a result of a failure to report all interest or dividends or (iii) the IRS has 
notified the claimant(s) that he, she, or it is no longer subject to backup withholding.  If the IRS has 
notified the claimant(s) that he, she, it, or they is (are) subject to backup withholding, please strike 
out the language in the preceding sentence indicating that the claim is not subject to backup 
withholding in the certification above.                                   
UNDER THE PENALTY OF PERJURY UNDER THE LAWS OF THE UNITED STATES, I       
(WE) CERTIFY THAT ALL OF THE INFORMATION PROVIDED BY ME (US) ON THIS      
CLAIM FORM IS TRUE, CORRECT, AND COMPLETE, AND THAT THE DOCUMENTS         
SUBMITTED  HEREWITH  ARE  TRUE  AND  CORRECT  COPIES  OF  WHAT  THEY      
PURPORT TO BE.                                                            
Signature of claimant                        Date                         
Print claimant name here                                                  
Signature of joint claimant, if any          Date                         
Print joint claimant name here                                            
If the claimant is other than an individual, or is not the person completing this form, the following also 
must be provided:                                                         
Signature of person signing on behalf of claimant  Date                   
Print name of person signing on behalf of claimant here                   
Capacity of person signing on behalf of claimant, if other than an individual, e.g., executor, president, 
trustee, custodian, etc.  (Must provide evidence of authority to act on behalf of claimant – see ¶ 11 on page 
4 of this Claim Form.)                                                    
                     REMINDER CHECKLIST                                  
1. Sign the above release and certification.  If this Claim Form is being made on behalf of joint 
 claimants, then both must sign.                                         
2.  Attach only copies of acceptable supporting documentation as these documents will not be 
 returned to you.                                                        
3.  Do not highlight any portion of the Claim Form or any supporting documents. 
4.  Keep copies of the completed Claim Form and documentation for your own records. 
5.  The Claims Administrator will acknowledge receipt of your Claim Form by mail, within 60 
 days  of  your  submission.    Your  claim  is  not  deemed  filed  until  you  receive  an 
 acknowledgement postcard.  If you do not receive an acknowledgement postcard within 60 
 days, please call the Claims Administrator toll free at 1-855-535-1824. 
6.  If your address changes in the future, or if this Claim Form was sent to an old or incorrect 
 address, you must send the Claims Administrator written notification of your new address.  If 
 you change your name, inform the Claims Administrator.                  
7.  If you have any questions or concerns regarding your claim, contact the Claims Administrator 
 at the address below, by email at info@LuckinCoffeeSecuritiesLitigation.com, or by toll-free 
 phone at 1-855-535-1824, or you may visit www.LuckinCoffeeSecuritiesLitigation.com.   
This  Claim  Form  must  be  mailed  to  the  Claims  Administrator  by  first-class  mail  or 
submitted online at www.LuckinCoffeeSecuritiesLitigation.com, postmarked (or received) 
no later than ___________ __, 2022.  If mailed, the Claim Form should be addressed as 
follows:                                                                  
                In re Luckin Coffee Inc. Securities Litigation           
               c/o Epiq Class Action & Claims Solutions, Inc.            
                          P.O. Box 5887                                  
                      Portland, OR 97228-5887                            
    A Claim Form received by the Claims Administrator shall be deemed to have been 
submitted when posted, if a postmark date on or before ____________, 2022 is indicated on the 
envelope and it is mailed First Class, and addressed in accordance with the above instructions.  In 
all other cases, a Claim Form shall be deemed to have been submitted when actually received by 
the Claims Administrator.                                                 
    You should be aware that it will take a significant amount of time to fully process all of the 
Claim Forms.  Please be patient and notify the Claims Administrator of any change of address. 
#3037827                                                                  
Exhibit 3                                              
                                                         Exhibit 3       
                 UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT                            
            FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK                        

                                 Case No. 1:20-cv-01293-JPC-JLC          
 IN RE LUCKIN COFFEE INC.                                                
 SECURITIES LITIGATION                                                   

   SUMMARY NOTICE OF (I) PROPOSED SETTLEMENT; (II) SETTLEMENT            
          HEARING; AND (III) MOTION FOR ATTORNEYS’ FEES                  
                    AND LITIGATION EXPENSES                              
TO:  All  persons  and  entities  (and  their  beneficiaries)  that  purchased  or  otherwise 
    acquired the American Depository Shares (“ADSs”) of Luckin Coffee Inc. between 
    May 17, 2019 through July 15, 2020, inclusive (“Class”). Certain persons and entities 
    are excluded from the Class as set forth in detail in the Stipulation and Agreement of 
    Settlement dated October 20, 2021 (“Stipulation”) and the Settlement Notice described 
    below.                                                               
PLEASE READ THIS NOTICE CAREFULLY; YOUR RIGHTS WILL BE AFFECTED          
        BY A CLASS ACTION LAWSUIT PENDING IN THIS COURT.                 
    YOU ARE HEREBY NOTIFIED, pursuant to Rule 23 of the Federal Rules of Civil 
Procedure and an Order of the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York 
(“Court”), that Sjunde AP-Fonden and Louisiana Sheriffs’ Pension & Relief Fund (together, 
“Class Representatives”), on behalf of themselves and the Class; and (b) Luckin Coffee Inc. (in 
Provisional Liquidation) (“Luckin”), have reached a proposed settlement of the above-captioned 
action (“Action”) for $175,000,000 in cash (“Settlement”). The Settlement, if approved, will 
resolve all claims in the Action.                                         
    A hearing will be held on __________, 2022 at __:__ _.m., before the Honorable John P. 
Cronan at the Daniel Patrick Moynihan United States Courthouse, 500 Pearl St., New York, NY 
10007-1312,  Courtroom  12D,  to  determine:  (i)  whether  the  proposed  Settlement  should  be 
approved as fair, reasonable, and adequate; (ii) whether the Action should be dismissed with 
prejudice against Luckin, the other defendants named in the Action, and certain other related 
parties, and the releases specified and described in the Stipulation (and in the Settlement Notice 
described below) should be entered; (iii) whether the proposed Plan of Allocation should be 
approved as fair and reasonable; and (iv) whether Class Counsel’s motion for attorneys’ fees and 
litigation expenses should be approved. Any updates regarding the hearing, including any changes 
to the date or time of the hearing or updates regarding in-person or remote appearances at the 
hearing, will be posted to the website for the Action, www.Luckin CoffeeSecuritiesLitigation.com. 
    If you are a member of the Class, your rights will be affected by the pending Action 
and the Settlement, and you may be entitled to share in the Settlement Fund. This notice 
provides only a summary of the information contained in the detailed Notice of (I) Proposed 
Settlement; (II) Settlement Hearing; and (III) Motion for Attorneys’ Fees and Litigation Expenses 
(“Settlement Notice”). If you have not received a copy of the Settlement Notice, along with the 
Claim Form, in the mail, you may obtain copies of these documents by: (i) contacting the Claims 
Administrator at In re Luckin Coffee Inc. Securities Litigation, c/o Epiq Class Action & Claims 
Solutions,  Inc.,  P.O.  Box  5887  Portland,  OR  97228-5887,  1-855-535-1824, 
info@LuckinCoffeeSecuritiesLitigation.com; or (ii) downloading them from the website for the Action, 
www.LuckinCoffeeSecuritiesLitigation.com,  or  from  Class  Counsel’s  websites, 
www.blbglaw.com and www.ktmc.com.                                         
    If you are a member of the Settlement Class, in order to be eligible to receive a payment 
from the Settlement, you must submit a Claim Form postmarked (if mailed), or online, no later 
than ____________, 2022,in accordance with the instructions set forth in the Claim Form. If you 
are a Class Member and do not submit a proper Claim Form, you will not be eligible to share in 
the distribution of the net proceeds of the Settlement but you will nevertheless be bound by any 
releases, judgments, or orders entered by the Court in the Action.        
    Any objections to the proposed Settlement, the proposed Plan of Allocation, and/or Class 
Counsel’s motion for attorneys’ fees and litigation expenses, must be filed with the Court and 
delivered to Class Counsel and Luckin’s Counsel such that they are received no later than 
____________, 2022, in accordance with the instructions set forth in the Settlement Notice. As 
this Class was previously certified by the Court for purposes of negotiating and implementing a 
settlement and, in connection therewith, Class Members had the opportunity to exclude themselves 
from the Class, the Court has exercised its discretion not to allow a second opportunity for 
exclusion in connection with the settlement proceedings.                  
    PLEASE DO NOT CONTACT THE COURT, THE CLERK’S OFFICE, LUCKIN,         
OR LUCKIN’S COUNSEL REGARDING THIS NOTICE. All questions about this notice, the 
Settlement, or your eligibility to participate in the Settlement should be directed to Class Counsel 
or the Claims Administrator.                                              
    Requests for the Settlement Notice and Claim Form should be made to the Claims 
Administrator:                                                            
                In re Luckin Coffee Inc. Securities Litigation           
                c/o Epiq Class Action & Claims Solutions, Inc.           
                          P.O. Box 5887                                  
                       Portland, OR 97228-5887                           
                          1-855-535-1824                                 
                info@LuckinCoffeeSecuritiesLitigation.com                
                www.LuckinCoffeeSecuritiesLitigation.com                 
    All other inquiries should be made to Class Counsel:                 
      Salvatore J. Graziano, Esq.        Sharan Nirmul, Esq              
Bernstein Litowitz Berger & Grossmann LLP  Kessler Topaz Meltzer & Check, LLP 
     1251 Avenue of the Americas       280 King of Prussia Road          
       New York, NY  10020               Radnor, PA  19087               
          1-800-380-8496                  1-610-667-7706                 
      settlements@blbglaw.com             info@ktmc.com                  
DATED:  __________ __, 2021             BY ORDER OF THE COURT             
                                       United States District Court      
                                       Southern District of New York     