              IN THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT                        
                  NORTHERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS                             
                       DALLAS DIVISION                                   

                               §                                         
                               §                                         
IN RE AT&T INC. SECURITIES      §    Civil Action No. 3:24-CV-01196-N     
LITIGATION                      §                                         
                               §                                         
                               §                                         

              MEMORANDUM OPINION AND ORDER                               
    This Order addresses Defendants AT&T Inc., Randall Stephenson, John Stankey, 
Pascal Desroches, John Stephens, and Jeffrey McElfresh’s (collectively, “Defendants”) 
motion to dismiss [70].  Because the Court concludes that Lead Plaintiffs Teachers’ 
Retirement System of the City of New York, New York City Employees Retirement 
System, New York City Police Pension Fund, New York City Fire Department Pension 
Fund, and Board of Education Retirement System of the City of New York (collectively, 
“Plaintiffs”) have failed to state a claim under the rigorous requirements of the Public 
Securities Litigation Reform Act (“PSLRA”), the Court grants the motion and dismisses 
all claims without prejudice.  The Court further grants Plaintiffs leave to amend their 
complaint within thirty days of this Order.                               
                     I.  ORIGINS OF THE DISPUTE                          
    This is a putative class action under federal securities law on behalf of all persons 
and entities, other than Defendants, that purchased or otherwise acquired AT&T Inc. 
(“AT&T”) securities between July 28, 2018, and July 26, 2023 (the “Class Period”).  See 
Pls.’ First Am. Compl. ¶ 1 [64] (“FAC”).1  On July 9, 2023, the Wall Street Journal (“WSJ”) 
published an exposé titled “America Is Wrapped in Miles of Toxic Lead Cables” that stated 

“AT&T, Verizon and other telecom giants have left behind a sprawling network of cables 
covered in toxic lead . . . .  As the lead degrades, it is ending up in places where Americans 
live, work and play.”  Id. ¶ 241.  The story further reported that the telecom companies 
knew  about  the  lead  cables,  their  risks,  and  the  potential  for  lead  to  leach  into  the 
environment but failed to act on these potential risks or take efforts to monitor the cables.  
Id.                                                                       

    Historically, the use of lead-lined transmission cables was an industry standard 
practice.  Id. ¶ 115.  By 1978, it was recognized that lead-lined cables were in wide use 
across the country, although they were no longer being used in new installations.  See id. 
¶ 118.  As of July 2023, AT&T still owned approximately 200,000 miles of lead cables 
around the country, about one-third of which is located on aerial utility poles or underwater.  

Id. ¶ 125.  The other two-thirds are either buried or located within conduit.  Id.  Frontline 
AT&T workers from various geographies report encountering lead cables that tend to be 
concentrated in older urban areas such as Dallas and Milwaukee.  See id. ¶ 123.  One 
worker estimates that roughly 80% of the cables in Dallas, including those used on aerial 
utility poles, are covered in lead.  Id.  In Chicago, most of the aerial cables are found in 

heavily populated neighborhoods.  Id.  WSJ investigators tested samples from various areas 
near lead lined cables, including 130 underwater cable sites, a playground, and in front of 

1 For purposes of this motion, the Court assumes the truth of all well-pleaded facts in the 
FAC.                                                                      
a school.  FAC ¶ 241.  All of these samples contained lead that seemingly leached from the 
cables.  Id.  The WSJ team found that aerial lead cables run alongside more than one 

hundred schools, while more than one thousand schools are within a one-half of a mile of 
an underwater lead cable.  Id.                                            
    AT&T stock fell 2.18% the day after the WSJ story first broke.  Id. ¶ 399.  After 
additional reporting raised alarm over AT&T’s potential exposure for the lead cables, 
AT&T stock further declined to its lowest level since March 1993.  See id. ¶¶ 406–07.  
Plaintiffs bring this lawsuit under Section 10(b) of the Securities and Exchange Act and 

Rule 10b-5 against AT&T and several of its executives.  Id. ¶¶ 485–91.  Plaintiffs allege 
that various statements about AT&T’s efforts to retire its old telecom lines were materially 
false or misleading as to the risks AT&T faced from this widespread and deteriorating 
network of lead-lined cables.  See id. ¶ 278.  Plaintiffs also assert a claim under Section 
20(a)  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Act  against  Stephenson,  Stankey,  Stephens, 

Desroches, and McElfresh (collectively, “Individual Defendants”) as control persons of 
AT&T.  Id. ¶¶ 492–97.                                                     
                    A.  Statements on Cost Savings                       
    Over the course of the class period, Defendants made several statements about how 
retiring the old copper transmission lines would help reduce costs.  See, e.g., id. ¶¶ 281, 

290, 293, 295, 304–06, 317.  Plaintiffs contend these statements are false or materially 
misleading in that they fail to apprise investors of the fact that AT&T’s shutdown strategy, 
involving leaving lead-lined wires in place, was likely to expose AT&T to significant and 
costly scrutiny, liability, and reputational harm.  Id. ¶ 280.            

              B.  Statements on Environmental Stewardship                
    Next,  Defendants  made  several  statements  about  AT&T’s  commitment  to 
responsible waste management, and specifically the proper disposal of hazardous wastes.  
See, e.g., id. ¶¶ 331, 336, 343.  Plaintiffs contend these statements are false or materially 
misleading because they fail to disclose the existence of the lead-lined cables, that they are 
being left in place, and that they are known to leach lead into the environment.  Id. ¶ 332. 

              C.  Statements on Employee Health and Safety               
    Next, Defendants made statements about AT&T’s commitment to complying with 
environmental,  health,  and  safety  (“EHS”)  laws,  training  employees  on  EHS,  and 
continuously evaluating EHS compliance.  See, e.g., id. ¶¶ 361–62, 368–70.  Plaintiffs 
contend that these statements are materially false or misleading because they fail to reveal 

that many employees who worked on lead-lined cables did not receive appropriate lead 
safety trainings, AT&T did not implement controls to ensure proper EHS compliance, and 
the work performed on these cables released lead into the environment without proper 
abatement protocols.  Id. ¶ 363.                                          
                        D.  Risk Statements                              

    Finally, Defendants made multiple statements about risks that could impact AT&T’s 
business, including risks that “[n]etwork service enhancements . . . may not occur as 
scheduled or at the cost expected” or that failure to manage and execute AT&T’s “business 
transformation  initiatives”  could  adversely  affect  AT&T’s  financial  condition  or 
competitive position.  See, e.g., id. ¶¶ 384, 387.  Plaintiffs contend these statements are 
false or misleading because they did not disclose the existence of, or risks associated with, 

the lead-lined cables and therefore that the risk of not completing network upgrades at the 
expected cost was more than hypothetical.  Id. ¶ 386.                     
    Defendants now move to dismiss all claims against them for failure to state a claim.  
Defs.’ Mot. 1 [70].                                                       
                       II.  LEGAL STANDARDS                              
                         A.  Rule 12(b)(6)                               

    When deciding a Rule 12(b)(6) motion to dismiss, a court must determine whether 
the plaintiff has asserted a legally sufficient claim for relief.  Blackburn v. City of Marshall, 
42 F.3d 925, 931 (5th Cir. 1995).  A viable complaint must include “enough facts to state a 
claim to relief that is plausible on its face.”  Bell Atlantic Corp. v. Twombly, 550 U.S. 544, 
570 (2007).  To meet this “facial plausibility” standard, a plaintiff must plead “factual 

content that allows the court to draw the reasonable inference that the defendant is liable 
for the misconduct alleged.”  Ashcroft v. Iqbal, 556 U.S. 662, 678 (2009).  A court generally 
accepts well-pleaded facts as true and construes the complaint in the light most favorable 
to the plaintiff.  Gines v. D.R. Horton, Inc., 699 F.3d 812, 816 (5th Cir. 2012).  But a plaintiff 
must provide “more than labels and conclusions, and a formulaic recitation of the elements 

of a cause of action will not do.”  Twombly, 550 U.S. at 555.  “Factual allegations must be 
enough to raise a right to relief above the speculative level . . . on the assumption that all 
the allegations in the complaint are true (even if doubtful in fact).”  Id. (citations omitted). 
    In ruling on a Rule 12(b)(6) motion, a court generally limits its review to the face 
of the pleadings, accepting as true all well-pleaded facts and viewing them in the light most 

favorable to the plaintiff.  See Spivey v. Robertson, 197 F.3d 772, 774 (5th Cir. 1999).  
However, a court may also consider documents outside of the pleadings if they fall within 
certain  limited  categories.    First,  a  “court  is  permitted  .  .  .  to  rely  on  ‘documents 
incorporated into the complaint by reference, and matters of which a court may take judicial 
notice.’”  Dorsey v. Portfolio Equities, Inc., 540 F.3d 333, 338 (5th Cir. 2008) (quoting 
Tellabs, Inc. v. Makor Issues & Rts., Ltd., 551 U.S. 308, 322 (2007)).  Second, a “written 

document that is attached to a complaint as an exhibit is considered part of the complaint 
and may be considered in a 12(b)(6) dismissal proceeding.”  Ferrer v. Chevron Corp., 484 
F.3d 776, 780 (5th Cir. 2007).  Third, a “court may consider documents attached to a motion 
to dismiss that ‘are referred to in the plaintiff’s complaint and are central to the plaintiff’s 
claim.’”  Sullivan v. Leor Energy, LLC, 600 F.3d 542, 546 (5th Cir. 2010) (quoting Scanlan 

v. Tex. A&M Univ., 343 F.3d 533, 536 (5th Cir. 2003)).  Finally, in “deciding a 12(b)(6) 
motion to dismiss, a court may permissibly refer to matters of public record.”  Cinel v. 
Connick, 15 F.3d 1338, 1343 n.6 (5th Cir. 1994); see also, e.g., Funk v. Stryker Corp., 631 
F.3d 777, 783 (5th Cir. 2011) (stating, in upholding district court’s dismissal pursuant to 
Rule 12(b)(6), that the “district court took appropriate judicial notice of publicly-available 

documents and transcripts produced by the FDA, which were matters of public record 
directly relevant to the issue at hand”).                                 
                          B.  Rule 9(b)                                  
    Section 10(b) claims are subject to Rule 9(b), which requires that plaintiffs alleging 

fraud or mistake state their claims with particularity.  Owens v. Jastrow, 789 F.3d 529, 534–
35 (5th Cir. 2015).  Specifically, plaintiffs must set forth the “who, what, when, where, and 
how” of the events constituting fraud or mistake.  ABC Arbitrage Plaintiffs Grp. v. Tchuruk, 
291 F.3d 336, 350 (5th Cir. 2002).  Plaintiffs also must “distinguish among those they sue 
and enlighten each defendant as to his or her particular part in the alleged fraud.”  Southland 
Sec. Corp. v. INSpire Ins. Sols., Inc., 365 F.3d 353, 365 (5th Cir. 2004) (emphasis omitted).  

Allegations against defendants as a group, without more specific connections between an 
individual defendant and an allegedly fraudulent act, should be disregarded.  Owens, 789 
F.3d at 537–38.  Other inference-based allegations, such as pleading based on a defendant’s 
position or common knowledge alone are similarly too vague.  See Abrams v. Baker Hughes 
Inc., 292 F.3d 424, 432–33 (5th Cir. 2002); Callinan v. Lexicon Pharms., Inc., 479 F. Supp. 

3d 379, 432 (S.D. Tex. 2020), aff’d, 858 F. App’x 162 (5th Cir. 2021) (unpub.). 
    Conditions of a person’s mind may be alleged generally, FED. R. CIV. P. 9(b), and 
the particularity standard may be relaxed where “the facts relating to the alleged fraud are 
peculiarly within the perpetrator’s knowledge.”  U.S. ex rel. Willard v. Humana Health 
Plan of Tex. Inc., 336 F.3d 375, 385 (5th Cir. 2003).  But courts pay careful attention to 

allegations made on information and belief to ensure this exception is not misused as a 
“license to base claims of fraud on speculation and conclusory allegations.”  Tuchman v. 
DSC Commc’ns Corp., 14 F.3d 1061, 1068 (5th Cir. 1994) (quoting Wexner v. First 
Manhattan Co., 902 F.2d 169, 172 (2d Cir. 1990)).  The “complaint must set forth a factual 
basis for such belief.”  Willard, 336 F.3d at 385.                        

              C.  Section 10(b), Rule 10b-5, and the PSLRA               
    Section 10(b) of the Securities and Exchange Act, codified at 15 U.S.C. § 78j(b), 
empowers the Securities and Exchange Commission to prescribe rules and regulations to 
protect the public from manipulative and deceptive securities practices.  Rule 10b-5, 
implementing Section 10(b), makes it unlawful:                            
         (a) To employ any device, scheme, or artifice to defraud,       

         (b) To make any untrue statement of a material fact or to omit  
         to  state  a  material  fact  necessary  in  order  to  make  the 
         statements made, in the light of the circumstances under which  
         they were made, not misleading, or                              

         (c) To engage in any act, practice, or course of business which 
         operates or would operate as a fraud or deceit upon any person, 

         in connection with the purchase or sale of any security.        

17 C.F.R. § 240.10b-5.  Violations require scienter, which is a “mental state embracing 
intent to deceive, manipulate, or defraud.”  Mun. Emps.’ Ret. Sys. v. Pier 1 Imps., Inc., 935 
F.3d 424, 429–30 (5th Cir. 2019) (quoting Tellabs, Inc. v. Makor Issues & Rts., Ltd., 551 
U.S. 308, 319 (2007)).  “Both intent and ‘severe recklessness’ are sufficient.”  Id. at 430 
(quoting Nathenson v. Zonagen, Inc., 267 F.3d 400, 408 (5th Cir. 2001)).  There is 
“considerable overlap among the subsections of the Rule,” Lorenzo v. SEC, 587 U.S. 71, 
80 (2019), but subsection (b) focuses on false statements and omissions, whereas scheme 
liability under (a) and (c) concerns conduct.  See SEC v. Mapp, 240 F. Supp. 3d 569, 585 
(E.D. Tex. 2017); In re Cognizant Tech. Sols. Corp. Sec. Litig., 2020 WL 3026564, at *18 
(D.N.J. 2020).  Thus, pleading each type of claim varies only slightly.   

    The elements of a private Rule 10b-5(b) claim are: (1) a material misrepresentation 
or omission; (2) scienter; (3) a connection with the purchase or sale of a security; (4) 
reliance  on  the  misrepresentation  or  omission;  (5)  economic  loss;  and  (6)  a  causal 
connection between the misrepresentation or omission and the loss.  Owens, 789 F.3d at 
535 (citing Lormand v. US Unwired, Inc., 565 F.3d 228, 238–39 (5th Cir. 2009)).  Similarly, 
Rule 10b-5(a) and (c) claims “require allegations ‘that the defendant (1) committed a 

deceptive or manipulative act, (2) with scienter, that (3) the act affected the market for 
securities or was otherwise in connection with their purchase of sale, and (4) that the 
defendant’s actions caused the plaintiff’s injuries.’”  Ranieri v. AdvoCare Int’l, L.P., 336 F. 
Supp. 3d 701, 720 (N.D. Tex. 2018) (quoting In re Enron Corp. Sec., 529 F. Supp. 2d 644, 
678 n.45 (S.D. Tex. 2006)).                                               

    The  PSLRA  further  heightens  the  pleading  requirements  in  two  ways.    First, 
plaintiffs must “specify each statement alleged to have been misleading, the reason or 
reasons why the statement is misleading, and, if an allegation regarding the statement or 
omission is made on information and belief, the complaint shall state with particularity all 
facts on which that belief is formed.”  15 U.S.C. § 78u-4(b)(1).  Second, plaintiffs must, 

“with respect to each act or omission . . . , state with particularity facts giving rise to a 
strong  inference  that  the  defendant  acted  with  the  required  state  of  mind.”    Id. 
§ 78u-4(b)(2)(A).  The latter “alters the usual contours of a Rule 12(b)(6) ruling” by 
requiring courts to “take into account plausible inferences opposing as well as supporting 
a strong inference of scienter.”  Cotter v. Gwyn, 2016 WL 4479510, at *6 (E.D. La. 2016) 
(quoting Lormand, 565 F.3d at 239).  When viewing the allegations holistically, the 

inference must be “cogent and compelling, not merely reasonable or permissible, in light 
of other explanations.”  Id. (cleaned up).                                
                         D.  Section 20(a)                               
    Section 20(a) of the Securities and Exchange Act “makes those who control others 
who violate section 10(b) jointly and severally liable ‘unless the controlling person acted 
in good faith and did not directly or indirectly induce the act or acts constituting the 

violation or cause of action.’” In re BP p.l.c. Sec. Litig., 843 F. Supp. 2d 712, 791 (S.D. 
Tex. 2012) (quoting 15 U.S.C. § 78t(a)).  Thus, adequately pleading a primary violation is 
a prerequisite to stating a control person claim.  Okla. Firefighters Pension & Ret. Sys. v. 
Six Flags Ent. Corp., 58 F.4th 195, 221 (5th Cir. 2023).  Additionally, plaintiffs must allege 
“that the controlling person had actual power over the controlled person and induced or 

participated in the alleged violation.”  In re BP p.l.c. Sec. Litig., 843 F. Supp. 2d at 791.  
But unlike Rule 10b-5 claims, section “20(a) claims are subject only to the pleading 
requirements of Rule 8, not the heightened requirements of Rule 9(b).”  Id.  Once plaintiffs 
have pled a primary violation with sufficient particularity, they “need only provide the 
defendant fair notice of the [control person] claim and the basis of the allegations.”  Id. 

(citing Abbott v. Equity Grp., Inc., 2 F.3d 613, 620 (5th Cir. 1993)).    
III.  THE COURT GRANTS DEFENDANTS’ MOTION TO DISMISS BECAUSE PLAINTIFFS’ 
      ALLEGATIONS FAIL TO CREATE A STRONG INFERENCE OF SCIENTER          

    To state a valid claim under Rule 10b-5, Plaintiffs must allege facts giving rise to a 
strong inference that the Defendants acted with intent to deceive, manipulate, or defraud, 
or severe recklessness.  Pier 1, 935 F.3d at 429–30.  Here, Defendants argue that Plaintiffs 
have failed to meet this high bar for multiple reasons including the use of impermissible 
group pleading and offering weak, generalized allegations of motive.  Defs.’ Mot. 8.  
Reviewing the complaint, the Court agrees.                                
              A.  Plaintiffs Rely on Improper Group Pleading             
    Plaintiffs must “distinguish among those they sue and enlighten each defendant as 
to his or her particular part in the alleged fraud.”  Southland, 365 F.3d at 365 (emphasis in 

original).  Allegations against the Defendants as a group, without more specific connections 
between  an  Individual  Defendant  and  an  allegedly  fraudulent  statement,  should  be 
disregarded.  Owens, 789 F.3d at 537–38.  Scienter must be shown as to each Defendant, 
and group allegations “are not properly imputable as to any particular defendant.”  Id. at 
537.  Here, Plaintiffs rely on allegations that (1) are statements found in unsigned “Issue 

Briefs” attributed only to AT&T; and (2) attribute knowledge of various facts to a group or 
to nondefendant individuals.  These allegations are insufficient to support an inference of 
scienter as to any defendant.                                             
    First, the challenged statements that come from AT&T’s “Issue Briefs” fail to 
support scienter because they are not attributed or connected to any individual speaker.  

Across seventy-two paragraphs of the complaint, Plaintiffs challenge specific statements 
alleged to be materially false or misleading.  Thirty-five of these challenged statements are 
found in Issue Briefs published on the AT&T website.  See FAC ¶¶ 329–31, 335–37, 341–

43, 345–47, 349–51, 357–59, 361–62, 364–66, 368–70, 372–74, 376–78, 380–82.  In 
reciting each of these statements, the complaint does not attribute or connect any of them 
to an Individual Defendant — only to AT&T.  See id.  Accordingly, these statements are 
not actionable because they fail to draw the requisite connection needed to establish 
scienter.  See Southland, 365 F.3d at 365 (requiring “specific factual allegations link[ing] 
the individual to the statement at issue”).                               

    Plaintiffs argue that these Issue Briefs are, in fact, attributed.  Pls.’ Resp. 25.  
However, the Court disagrees.  Plaintiffs point to the fact that AT&T issues a yearly 
Corporate Sustainability Report (“CSR”), each of these CSRs contains an introductory 
letter from AT&T’s CEO, and they also refer readers to the Issue Briefs.  See id.  However, 
the fact that the CSRs contain an introductory letter by the CEO (Stephenson or Stankey) 

may not even make the core statements within the CSRs attributable to the CEO, much less 
the statements within the obliquely referenced Issue Briefs.  See Southland, 365 F.3d at 366 
(stating corporate scienter as to a statement is shown by the state of mind of the individual 
making it, ordering or approving it, or furnishing information for inclusion).  And even if 
the CSRs’ statements can be attributed to the CEO, that does not necessarily mean the Issue 

Briefs are also attributed.  Here, the connections between the CSRs and the Issue Briefs 
are attenuated at best.  The CSRs discuss various subject matters, and often at the end of a 
section, include a note in the margin that states something like: “Read more in our Climate 
Change issue brief at [URL].”  See, e.g., Pls.’ Appx. 154 [73-1].2  This is a far cry from 
adopting or reasserting the statements in the Issue Briefs.  And it is not enough for the 

Court to conclude that the introducing CEO ordered or approved everything in the Issue 
Briefs based on these minor references.  Accordingly, the issue briefs are unattributed and 
are therefore not sufficient to support a strong inference of scienter for any Defendant.   
    Second, many other allegations in the complaint attribute knowledge of facts to 
groups of people or lower-level employees — not Individual Defendants — and therefore 
do not raise an inference of scienter.  The FAC frequently refers to groups like “leadership,” 

the “EHS group,” “AT&T” generically, and other nonspecific referents.  See, e.g., FAC 
¶¶ 124, 143, 149, 197.  These allegations, when taken as true, paint a picture of what 
happened “on the ground” at AT&T with regard to the lead-lined cables.  But they fail to 
make any connection between those facts and any Individual Defendant’s mental state, as 
required to state a claim for securities fraud.  See In re Venator Materials PLC Sec. Litig., 

547 F. Supp. 3d 624, 651 (S.D. Tex. 2021) (“The plaintiffs cannot simply point to the fact 
that some other person at the corporation knew of facts that make the statement misleading 
and impute that knowledge to the speaker.”).  Accordingly, without such a connection, these 
allegations do not support a strong inference of scienter here.           





2 The Court may consider the contents of the CSRs at this stage because they are explicitly 
referenced in the complaint.  See FAC ¶ 68 (describing statements in the 2018 CSR); ¶ 71 
(stating the CSRs expressly refer investors to the Issue Briefs).         
       B.  The Allegations of Motive are Insufficient to Establish Scienter 
    Plaintiffs allege two general motives for suppressing information about lead-lined 

cables: (1) the need to reduce costs after AT&T “increased its net debt to over $180 billion 
to acquire two financially disastrous businesses,” FAC ¶ 435, and (2) the desire for the 
executives to increase their incentive compensation, Id. ¶ 441.  Neither of these alleged 
motives are sufficient to create or support an inference of scienter here. 
    First, the desire to reduce costs is a motivation held by all businesses and is so 
generic as to not be actionable.  See In re Alamosa Holdings, Inc., 382 F. Supp. 2d 832, 

860 (rejecting the use of “universal corporate motives”).  The Fifth Circuit has also doubted 
that even a motive tied to the ultimate survival of the business could establish scienter 
alone.  See Owens, 789 F. 3d at 539.  Here, Plaintiffs allege that the cost reduction initiatives 
at AT&T were prompted by activist shareholders worried about “a deterioration in the 
performance of AT&T’s stock” — not the ultimate survival of the business as a whole.  See 

FAC ¶ 426.  Accordingly, the cost reduction motive allegations are not enough to create a 
strong inference of intent to deceive, manipulate, or defraud in this case, even when viewed 
holistically with the other allegations.                                  
    Second, the Fifth Circuit has clearly stated that incentive compensation “can hardly 
be the basis on which an allegation of fraud is predicated.  On a practical level, were the 

opposite true, the executives of virtually every corporation in the United States would be 
subject to fraud allegations.”  Tuchman, 14 F.3d at 1068; see also Yoshikawa v. Exxon Mobil 
Corp.,  2022  WL  4677621,  at  *6  (N.D.  Tex.  2022)  (Godbey,  C.J.)  (noting  that 
“compensation structure arguments . . . cannot create an inference of scienter alone”).  And 
viewed in the context of the remaining factual allegations, the Court cannot conclude that 
a motive to increase incentive compensation in this case is strong enough to support or 

enhance any inference of scienter.                                        
  C.  The Allegations About Each Individual Defendant Fail to Establish Scienter 
    Reviewing the remaining allegations as to each Individual Defendant, the Court 
concludes that the FAC fails to establish the requisite strong inference of scienter to support 
securities fraud claims.  The alleged facts generally establish that the Individual Defendants 
knew that (1) AT&T was retiring copper wirelines in place, (2) some of these wires 

contained lead, and (3) lead is generally harmful.  But the complaint fails to allege any 
facts showing the Individual Defendants were aware of any widespread environmental 
contamination risk or employee health issues that could reasonably result in material risk 
to the company.  Without such belief of material risks (or severe recklessness as to those 
risks) no inference of scienter is supported.                             

    1.  Defendant Stankey — The plurality of Plaintiffs’ individualized allegations 
relate to John Stankey, AT&T’s COO from October 2019 through June 2020 and CEO since 
July 1, 2020.  See FAC ¶ 20.  Plaintiffs allege he made multiple actionable statements about 
AT&T’s transition from copper to fiber and the cost savings the transition was expected to 
create.  Specifically, they challenge statements he made on analyst calls and at conferences 

as well as statements in 10-K forms he signed.  For example, Plaintiffs challenge the 
following statement in AT&T’s 10-K form for fiscal year 2020: “We continue to transform 
our operations to be more efficient and effective, reinvesting savings into growth areas of 
the  business.   We  are  restructuring  businesses,  sunsetting  legacy  networks,  .  .  .  and 
reassessing overall benefit costs.  We expect continued savings from these initiatives.”  
FAC ¶ 285.  To establish Stankey’s state of mind, Plaintiffs allege that (1) Stankey admitted 

the use of lead cables was “well understood” and “has long been known” at AT&T; (2) he 
personally analyzed the legacy network to decide whether to “reclaim” old lines; (3) he 
knew lead was an environmental toxin; (4) Stankey led the team that decided to “reclaim” 
the copper wires and therefore must have known AT&T retired lead cables in place; (5) 
Stankey was told that the careless disposal of lead “can pose reputational and legal risks” 
to AT&T; and (6) he knew the risks were materializing because of a lawsuit over lead cables 

in Lake Tahoe.  See Pls.’ Resp. 21–25.                                    
    Reviewing these contentions, the Court concludes they are insufficient to raise a 
strong inference that Stankey knew of or was severely reckless in failing to disclose 
material risks to AT&T stemming from these lead-lined cables.  First, the Court cannot 
draw an inference of scienter from the allegations that Stankey led the team tasked with 

reclaiming copper wire.  Generally, “it is well established that an officer’s position on its 
own is insufficient to support an inference of scienter.”  Yoshikawa, 2022 WL 4677621, at 
*3 (citing Abrams, 292 F.3d at 433).  And while it may seem that leading the team that 
reclaimed copper would necessarily impart operational knowledge of the reclamation 
details, the complaint only pleads that Stankey led an “enterprise-wide cost-reduction 

initiative” of which cutting costs in the wireline business was one element.  See FAC 
¶¶ 426–29.  Similarly, the complaint does not plead that Stankey personally analyzed the 
legacy network — instead Plaintiffs allege he was “fully engaged [in] doing data analysis” 
across “all aspects of [AT&T’s] operations.”  FAC ¶ 427.  Leading a broad-brush cost-
cutting endeavor is the kind of high-level activity executives regularly engage in, and thus 
does not itself raise a strong inference that Stankey personally knew the details of AT&T’s 

wireline transition project and any material risks that could be associated with it. 
    And as to the allegation Stankey was told that careless disposal of lead “can pose 
reputational and legal risks” to AT&T, the complaint pleads this fact in the context of the 
disposal of lead-acid batteries in 2011.  See FAC ¶¶ 168–73.  This statement does not show 
that Stankey had any knowledge that the lead-lined cables at issue here were being disposed 
of carelessly in a way that would create obvious risks to AT&T.  And similarly, knowledge 

of one lawsuit involving lead cables in Lake Tahoe does not establish knowledge of severe 
risks.  Knowledge of one lawsuit in one area, with a disputed factual basis, does not impart 
knowledge that the entire lead cable network was subject to material risks. 
    Thus, regardless of whether Stankey knew in the abstract that lead was a hazard to 
the environment or to AT&T’s employees, the complaint fails to allege Stankey was ever 

provided  information  or  believed  that  these  lead  cables  were  emitting  lead  into  the 
environment  in  any  widespread  way  that  could  pose  severe  risks  to  the  business.  
Reviewing the complaint holistically, the Court cannot say there is a strong inference of 
intent to defraud or severe recklessness as to Stankey — instead, the Court recognizes the 
at  least  slightly  more  persuasive  inference  that  Stankey  truthfully  believed AT&T’s 

wireline transformation would reduce costs and had no information that would give notice 
of severe risks in that effort.                                           
    2.  Defendant McElfresh — Plaintiffs also challenge a number of statements about 
the copper transition from Jeffrey McElfresh, AT&T’s COO since April 2022 and the CEO 
of AT&T Communications before that.  See FAC ¶ 22.  Similar to Stankey, McElfresh made 
multiple statements about the expected cost savings coming from AT&T’s efforts to retire 

its copper wireline network.  For example, Plaintiffs challenge the following statement 
McElfresh made on March 11, 2022, at an AT&T Analyst & Investor Day:      
         I’ve mentioned simplicity and focus.  These are good ways to    
         think about what we’re doing to transform our legacy or copper  
         network footprint and all the fixed and variable costs that go  
         along  with  running  and  maintaining  a  very  large  copper  
         network . . . .  Reducing the legacy fixed cost and associated  
         trailing expenses and migrating these customers to fiber and    
         5G solutions maintains our margins . . . .  This program is in  
         the early days of gaining scale, and we’re getting to the point 
         where the cost savings are materializing . . . . These actions not 
         only  drive  cost  efficiencies,  but  they’re  opening  up  more 
         opportunity that is meaningful for our future.                  

FAC ¶ 304.  And in support of scienter, Plaintiffs assert the same theories as for Stankey 
— that McElfresh knew about the retire-in-place strategy, knew that the cables had lead, 
and knew that lead was generally harmful.  See Pls.’ Resp. 21–24.  However, for the same 
reasons as discussed for Stankey, the allegations here fail to create a strong inference of 
scienter.  Taken together, the FAC’s allegations do not show that McElfresh had any intent 
to defraud or deceive, or even severe recklessness.  Instead, just as for Stankey, the Court 
finds it more persuasive that McElfresh truthfully believed the copper transition initiatives 
would lead to cost savings and had no reason to believe there was any severe risk to AT&T’s 
business from that project.                                               
    3.    Defendants  Desroches,  Stephens,  and  Stephenson  —  Plaintiffs  further 
challenge some statements by Defendants Pascal Desroches, John Stephens, and Randall 
Stephenson that relate to the copper transition or statements of risks.  See FAC ¶¶ 287, 297, 
308, 315 (Desroches); ¶¶ 285, 301 (Stephens); ¶ 384 (Stephenson and Stephens).  Each of 
these statements has to do with the potential cost savings associated with transitioning away 

from copper cable products.  See id.  And Plaintiffs rest their theories of scienter for these 
defendants on even fewer allegations than those applicable to Stankey or McElfresh.  See, 
e.g., Pls.’ Resp. 24 (“Desroches provided frequent and detailed disclosures about the cost 
benefits of removing copper, showing he had ‘substantial familiarity’ with the topic.” 
(citation omitted)); FAC ¶ 426 (noting Stephenson stated he would personally oversee the 
“enterprise-wide cost-reduction initiative”).  For the same reasons already discussed, the 

Court does not find a strong inference that these defendants had any intent to defraud, 
deceive,  or  manipulate  or  acted  with  severe  recklessness  as  to  any  risks  to AT&T’s 
business.  The complaint’s allegations instead lead the Court to conclude that the competing 
inference is at least somewhat more plausible.                            
    Then, because the Court concludes that the Complaint fails to plausibly allege 

scienter as to any Individual Defendant, the Court must also then conclude that scienter is 
lacking for the corporate defendant, AT&T.  See Southland, 365 F.3d at 366 (stating courts 
should look at the “state of mind of the individual” who makes the statement in determining 
corporate scienter).  The Court accordingly dismisses all claims against all defendants for 
failure to allege scienter. 3                                             


3 In addition to asserting lack of scienter, falsity, and materiality, Defendants argue that 
certain statements must be dismissed under the five-year statute of repose codified in 28 
U.S.C. § 1658(b).  See Defs.’ Mot. 31.  However, the Court declines to dismiss on this 
basis.  For the 2017 form 10-K, Plaintiffs allege the misstatements were later incorporated 
by reference in future documents.  See FAC ¶ 385.  Having been reasserted within the 
repose period, the claims based on the substance of these statements are not blocked by the 
                   IV.  FALSITY AND MATERIALITY                          
    Rule 10b-5 makes unlawful “any untrue statement of a material fact” or omission 

of a material fact when otherwise the statement is misleading.  17 C.F.R. § 240.10b-5.  A 
fact is material if there is a substantial likelihood that a reasonable investor would have 
placed significance on the withheld or misrepresented information.  Southland, 365 F.3d at 
362 (citing Basic Inc. v. Levinson, 485 U.S. 224, 240 (1988)).  To satisfy Federal Rule of 
Civil Procedure 9(b)’s heightened pleading standards, Plaintiffs must set forth why a 
statement is false or misleading.  See id.  While materiality “typically presents a mixed 

question of fact and law,” making it ultimately “a decision for the jury,” In re Venator 
Materials, 547 F. Supp. 3d at 655, Plaintiffs cannot survive a motion to dismiss without 
setting forth facts that make materiality at least plausible.  Lormand, 565 F.3d at 257 
(“Asking for such plausible grounds to infer the element of a claim does not impose a 
probability requirement at the pleading stage; it simply calls for enough facts to raise a 

reasonable expectation that discovery will reveal that the elements of the claim existed.” 
(emphasis in original) (quoting Twombly, 550 U.S. at 556) (cleaned up)).  Defendants argue 


statute.  And for the July 2018 EHS Issue Brief, there is a dispute of fact over the 
publication date that is not appropriate for decision on a motion to dismiss.  See Pls.’ Resp. 
18 (noting the Issue Brief gives only an “updated” date, and that date is within the repose 
period).    Defendants  further  challenge  whether  Plaintiffs  have  adequately  pled  loss 
causation for any bond transactions because “there is no allegation that the price of any of 
the bonds dropped.”  See Defs.’ Mot. 32.  However, Plaintiffs sufficiently allege that they 
“acquired AT&T securities at artificially inflated prices,” these securities dropped in price 
in the fallout of the WSJ report, and that caused loss to Plaintiffs.  See FAC ¶¶ 16, 468.  
The allegations do not limit the definition of “AT&T securities” to just common stock, and 
the use of the broad term is sufficient to put Defendants on notice that all AT&T securities 
are in play.  Accordingly, the Court declines to dismiss on this basis.   
that Plaintiffs have not carried their burden to set forth facts demonstrating that some 
statements and omissions they challenge were both false and material.  See Defs.’ Mot. 19–

20.                                                                       
              A.  Statements on Cost Savings Are Actionable              
    Plaintiffs challenge numerous statements by the various defendants about expected 
cost savings from the transition away from copper, and the reclamation of that copper 
material.  See, e.g., FAC ¶ 295 (challenging statement by Stankey that AT&T is “taking 
cost  out  of  the  business  based  on  fiber  replacement  to  old  infrastructure”);  ¶  293 

(challenging McElfresh’s statement that decommissioning copper network “takes cost out 
and helps grow margin”).  Over the course of these statements, the Individual Defendants 
at AT&T repeatedly touted that their initiatives for retiring, replacing, or reclaiming copper 
wireline would help reduce AT&T’s overall cost burden.  Plaintiffs allege these statements 
are false and misleading because:                                         

         these statements gave the false impression that AT&T’s legacy   
         infrastructure would not be phased out in a manner that would   
         create  costly  scrutiny,  liability,  and  reputational  harm,  but 
         failed to disclose that: (i) its legacy wireline network contained 
         hundreds of thousands of miles of cables covered in toxic lead  
         sheathing in aerial and underground locations across the United 
         States; (ii) this form of sheathing was known to leach lead     
         particles  into  the  surrounding  environment  over  time  or  
         otherwise  release  lead  particles  when  disturbed  through   
         physical contact; (iii) many such cables were abandoned in      
         place and no longer maintained by the Company thereafter; (iv)  
         workers  routinely  performed  service  on  such  cables  in  a 
         manner that released lead particles into the air without proper 
         abatement precautions; and, thus, (v) it was reasonably likely  
         that the Company would incur substantial costs in connection    
         with legislative actions, regulatory enforcement, investigative 
         efforts,  removal,  remediation,  litigation,  and/or  related  
         penalties.                                                      

FAC ¶ 280.  Defendants argue that these, and other statements like it, cannot be false or 
materially misleading because they are statements of opinion, Plaintiffs fail to explain how 
certain facts being omitted made them misleading, and because they are protected by the 
PSLRA’s safe harbor.  Defs.’ Mot. 21–25.  However, viewing the complaint in the light 
most favorable to the Plaintiffs, the Court concludes that these statements are actionable. 
    First, Plaintiffs do plead with sufficient particularity how the challenged statements 
are false or misleading.  As quoted above, Plaintiffs plead the complete chain of inferences 
necessary to connect the statements about cost savings to the alleged material liability from 
lead-lined cables.  See FAC ¶ 280.  This is sufficiently particular to survive this motion to 

dismiss.                                                                  
    Second, these statements about cost savings of the copper transition are mostly not 
opinions.  “An opinion is a belief, a view, or a sentiment which the mind forms of persons 
or things,” while a “fact is a thing done or existing or an actual happening.”  Omnicare, 
Inc. v. Laborers Dist. Council Constr. Indus. Pension Fund, 575 U.S. 175, 183 (2015) 

(cleaned up).  Many of the challenged statements about cost savings are not shrouded in 
language like “I believe” that could transform them into opinions.  When discussing the 
state of AT&T’s business, Defendant Stankey matter-of-factly stated “we are taking cost 
out of the business based on fiber replacement to old infrastructure.”  FAC ¶ 295.  This is 
plainly not an opinion, but a statement about what is actually happening in the business’s 

books at that moment in time.  Thus, this statement is an actionable statement of fact.  Other 
statements like “[w]e are . . . sunsetting legacy networks” are also phrased not as opinions 
but statements of current happenings.  See FAC ¶ 285.  And as recited above, Plaintiffs 

plead  a  sufficient  inferential  chain  explaining  why  they  believe  this  statement  is 
misleading.  Accordingly, many of the statements about the copper transition are actionable 
fact statements.4  However, even when viewed in the light most favorable to Plaintiffs, 
some of the challenged statements fail to state any “thing done or existing or an actual 
happening” and therefore must be dismissed on this basis.5  For example, Stankey’s 
statement that “we believe we can further accelerate cost take-outs as we progress through 

the year . . . [p]art of this entails transforming our network as we ultimately replace our 
copper services,” FAC ¶ 323, is much closer to a statement of personal opinion, not a 
statement of fact and is therefore not actionable.                        
    Third, these statements about cost savings are not protected by the PSLRA safe 
harbor.  The safe harbor provision protects some forward-looking statements, and it has 

two independent prongs.  First, Defendants will not be held liable for immaterial statements 
or for forward-looking statements that are identified as such and are accompanied by 
cautionary language.  15 U.S.C. § 78u-5(c)(1)(A).  Second, to evade the safe harbor, 
plaintiffs must properly plead that the forward-looking statement was made with actual 
knowledge that it was false and misleading.  Id. § 78u-5(c)(1)(B).  Unlike with the scienter 

requirement,  severe  recklessness  does  not  suffice.    The  safe  harbor  provision  is 


4See FAC ¶¶ 281, 283, 285, 287, 289, 290, 291, 293, 295, 297, 299, 301, 302, 304, 305, 
308, 312, 315, 317, 318, 320, 321, 324, 326, 327.                         
5See FAC ¶¶ 279, 306, 310, 313, 323.                                      
“disjunctive”; it may apply even when a plaintiff adequately alleges that the speaker had 
such knowledge if meaningful cautionary language was provided, and it also may apply 

even without that language if the plaintiff fails to allege facts sufficient to satisfy the second 
prong.  Carlton v. Cannon, 184 F. Supp. 3d 428, 453 (S.D. Tex. 2016).  To qualify for the 
safe harbor provision, forward-looking statements must be “accompanied by meaningful 
cautionary statements identifying important factors that could cause actual results to differ 
materially” from those described. 15 U.S.C. § 78u-5(c)(1)(A).  Courts must determine how 
each statement is “specifically and meaningfully” protected. Lormand, 565 F.3d at 245.  

Boilerplate cautionary language does not suffice.  Id. at 244–45.         
    Here, many of the challenged statements are not sufficiently forward looking to 
trigger the safe harbor.  As pled by the Plaintiffs, many of the challenged statements on cost 
savings present the cost-savings idea as a present happening.  See, e.g., FAC ¶ 293 (stating 
“as of today, we’re probably about 2,000 square miles of our copper network that’s been 

decommissioned . . . and that takes cost out that helps grow margin”).  Statements like this 
are not forward looking, because they convey information about present circumstances of 
which the truth is discernible at the time the statement is made.  See Taubenfeld v. 
Hotels.com, 385 F. Supp. 2d 587, 591 (N.D. Tex. 2004) (Godbey, J.); Spitzberg v. Houston 
Am. Energy Corp., 758 F.3d 676, 691 (5th Cir. 2014) (noting that a “mixed present/future 

statement is not entitled to the safe harbor with respect to the part of the statement that 
refers to the present”).                                                  
    Then, those statements that could be viewed as purely forward looking do not 
include sufficient cautionary language.  The cautionary language proffered by defendants 
is entirely boilerplate.  See, e.g., Defs.’ Mot. Ex. H, at Appx. 34 [70-1] (“First, just 
reminding everybody of the safe harbor.  Some of the information we’ll discuss is subject 

to risks and uncertainties and refer to our website for more information.”).  This is a far cry 
from the challenged statements being “specifically and meaningfully protected.”  See 
Lormand, 565 F.3d at 245.  And even the more detailed cautionary language in the 10-K 
forms is still functionally a boilerplate “litany of generally applicable risk factors,” as 
opposed to a “realistic description of the risks applicable to the particular circumstances.”  
See id. (quoting Southland, 365 F.3d at 372).  For example, the 2020 Form 10-K employs 

the following language when discussing potential risks from lawsuits:     
         We have in the past been, and may in the future be, named as a  
         defendant in lawsuits, claims and other legal proceedings that  
         arise in the ordinary course of our business based on alleged   
         acts of misconduct by employees. These actions seek, among      
         other  things,  compensation  for  alleged  personal  injury    
         (including  claims  for  loss  of  life),  workers’  compensation, 
         employment  discrimination,  sexual  harassment,  workplace     
         misconduct, wage and hour claims and other employment-          
         related  damages,  compensation  for  breach  of  contract,     
         statutory or regulatory claims, negligence or gross negligence, 
         punitive damages, consequential damages, and civil penalties    
         or other losses or injunctive or declaratory relief. The outcome 
         of any allegations, lawsuits, claims or legal proceedings is    
         inherently  uncertain  and  could  result  in  significant  costs, 
         damage  to  our  brands  or  reputation  and  diversion  of     
         management's attention from our business.                       

Defs.’ Mot. Ex. B, at Appx. 8.  Defendants refer to this provision in arguing that cost-
savings statements are protected.  See Defs.’ Mot. 23.  This language, listing numerous 
categories of different possible lawsuit natures and legal claims, even simply stating 
“statutory or regulatory claims,” is so broad as to be boilerplate.  Because there is not 
adequate cautionary language from which the Court can say the challenged statements are 
specifically and meaningfully protected, the Court concludes the PSLRA safe harbor does 

not apply to the statements about cost savings from the copper transition. 
      B.  Some Statements on Environmental Stewardship Are Actionable    
    Next,  Defendants  argue  that  the  challenged  statements  about  environmental 
stewardship are not actionable because they are either immaterial or they are not alleged to 
be false.  The Court generally agrees.                                    
    First, many of the challenged statements in this category are simply generalized 

positive  goals  that  are  therefore  immaterial.    For  example,  Plaintiffs  challenge  the 
following statement found in an Issue Brief: “We are committed to reducing waste in our 
operations and responsibly handing the waste that we produce.”  FAC ¶ 329.  This is a 
vague,  optimistic  statement  that  amounts  to  little  more  than  puffery  or  corporate 
cheerleading and is therefore immaterial.  See In re BP p.l.c. Sec. Litig, 852 F. Supp. 2d at 

748.  This, and each statement like it in the FAC, must therefore be dismissed for failing to 
plead materiality.6                                                       
    Next, many of the statements refer to AT&T’s general environmental initiatives, and 
as pled, do not purport to apply these general initiatives to every part, or any particular part, 
of AT&T’s wireline network practices.  For example, Plaintiffs challenge the statement that 

AT&T “manage[s] programs to reclaim and divert high-value network resources such as 
copper telecommunications wire.”  FAC ¶ 331.  Plaintiffs argue that this statement is 


6 See FAC ¶¶ 329, 333, 335, 339, 341, 345, 349, 353, 357.                 
misleading because it fails to disclose the existence of the lead-lined cables along with the 
retire-in-place strategy and attendant environmental risks.  Id. ¶ 332.  However, despite 

these allegations, the statement that AT&T manages reclamation programs is not alleged to 
be literally false, nor does it purport to say AT&T reclaims all its copper wire.  Accordingly, 
this statement, and others like it, fail to plead falsity.7  See In re Plains All Am. Pipeline, 
L.P. Sec. Litig., 307 F. Supp. 3d 583, 620 (S.D. Tex. 2018) (“Allegations that Plains was 
ineffective in implementing its policies . . . do not make the general statements describing 
Plains’s policies and priorities actionably misleading.”).                

    However, three of the challenged environmental statements are sufficient to survive 
this motion to dismiss.  Specifically, Plaintiffs challenge the statement: “When AT&T 
vacates facilities and outside plant infrastructure, our teams remove all regulated materials 
and coordinate with vendors to recycle and dispose of the materials in an appropriate 
manner.”  FAC ¶¶ 350, 359.  They further challenge the statement: “Hazardous waste is 

disposed in landfills, incinerated and recycled.”  FAC ¶ 337.  These statements are plausibly 
alleged to be false, as Plaintiffs claim that AT&T would vacate wirelines (by ceasing to use 
them) but instead of removing lead (a regulated material), AT&T would simply leave the 
wires in place while knowing they were likely to leach lead into the environment.  See FAC 
¶ 332.  At this stage, these allegations are sufficient to establish falsity for these statements. 





7 See FAC ¶¶ 330, 331, 336, 342, 343, 346, 347, 351, 354, 355, 358.       
       C.  Statements on Employee Health and Safety Are Not Actionable   
    Next, Defendants argue that the challenged statements about employee health and 

safety are not actionable because they are neither false nor material.  Defs.’ Mot. 27–28.  
The Court agrees.  First, like with the environmental allegations, many of the statements 
here are nothing more than generalized positive goals or corporate cheerleading.  See, e.g., 
FAC  ¶  361  (challenging  statement  that AT&T  is  “committed  to  complying  with  all 
applicable environment, health and safety laws and regulations and to maintaining and 
improving management systems throughout the company”).  Statements like this are 

immaterial and therefore do not support a securities fraud claim.8  Then, the remaining 
statements are nothing more than assertions that AT&T trains its employes on EHS topics 
and that AT&T monitors its EHS performance on a regular basis.  See, e.g., FAC ¶ 366 
(stating “we evaluate our EHS performance through regular reviews and internal and 
external audits”).  While Plaintiffs allege these statements are false based on the specific 

failures of EHS programs related to lead cables, Plaintiffs do not plead that AT&T had no 
EHS training or engaged in no EHS performance monitoring.  Without such allegations, 
these statements fail to allege a false statement of material fact.9  See In re Plains All Am. 
Pipeline, L.P. Sec. Litig., 307 F. Supp. 3d at 620.                       
            D.  Statements on Potential Risks Are Not Actionable         

    Finally, Defendants argue that the challenged statements about potential risks are 
not actionable because Defendants owed no duty to disclose potential investigations before 

8 See FAC ¶¶ 361, 364, 368, 372, 376, 380.                                
9 See FAC ¶¶ 362, 365, 366, 369, 370, 373, 374, 377, 378, 381, 382.       
they began.  The Court agrees.  Plaintiffs challenge various risk disclosure statements by 
Defendants.  See, e.g., FAC ¶ 393 (“Unfavorable litigation or governmental investigation 

results could require us to pay significant amounts or lead to onerous operating procedures.  
We  are  subject  to  a  number  of  lawsuits  both  in  the  United  States  and  foreign 
countries . . . .”).  Plaintiffs argue these statements are false or misleading because “AT&T 
was already defending several lawsuits arising from its use and/or abandonment of lead-
covered cables” and therefore the risks were more than hypothetical.  See FAC ¶ 386.  
However, the Court concludes that these statements fail to support a securities fraud claim.  

To be actionable, forward-looking statements must be false when made.  See Southland, 
365 F.3d at 378.  And statements can be misleading where they take presently materializing 
risks and pose them as a mere hypothetical future risk.  See Marcus v. J.C. Penney Co., 
2015 WL 5766870, at *3 (E.D. Tex. 2015).  But in the above statement, AT&T specifically 
disclosed that it was presently subject to lawsuits, but that the unknown future outcome 

may be onerous.  Thus, the above statement and those like it were not false when made, 
because they were warning about future risks that had not yet materialized — the outcome 
of litigation.10                                                          
    And  similarly,  the  remaining  statements,  which  generally  warn  that  network 
enhancements may not occur with the expected level of cost, are not actionable either.  As 

discussed in the sections about scienter, there is no sufficient allegation that would permit 
the inference that any Defendant knew of or believed in a material risk to AT&T’s business 


10 See FAC ¶¶ 390, 391, 393, 394.                                         
from the lead-lined cables.  And there is no plausible allegation that during the class period 
there were any significant, unexpected costs materializing from the wireline transition 

project.  Accordingly, the asserted risk statements about future potential costs were not 
false when made and therefore not actionable.11                           
V.  THE COURT GRANTS THE MOTION TO DISMISS THE SCHEME-LIABILITY CLAIM    
    In addition to asserting a misstatement claim under Section 10(b) and Rule 10b-5, 
Plaintiffs also passingly reference a scheme-liability claim.  See FAC ¶ 486.  Defendants 
move to dismiss this claim, and Plaintiffs did not make any argument in response that is 

specific to a scheme-liability claim.  See Defs.’ Mot 30–31.  Additionally, the Court notes 
that Rule 10(b) requires Plaintiffs to separately plead a scheme-liability claim if it is in any 
way distinct from their misstatement claim.  Linenweber v. Sw. Airlines Co., 693 F. Supp. 
3d 661, 687 (N.D. Tex. 2023).  Because Plaintiffs have not provided any argument to the 
contrary, and the Court sees no distinct alleged facts supporting a scheme liability claim, 

the Court dismisses this claim without prejudice.                         
VI.  THE COURT GRANTS THE MOTION TO DISMISS THE CONTROL PERSON CLAIM     
    Plaintiffs finally assert a control person claim under Section 20(a) of the SEC act.  
See FAC ¶¶ 492–97.  However, having dismissed all other substantive claims, the Court 
concludes that no sufficient primary violation is adequately pled for a Section 20(a) claim 

to remain.  See Linenweber, 693 F. Supp. 3d at 688.  Thus, the Court dismisses Plaintiff’s 
control-person claim without prejudice.                                   


11 See FAC ¶¶ 384, 385, 387, 388.                                         
                                CONCLUSION 
     For the reasons stated above, the Court grants Defendants’ motion to dismiss and 
dismisses all Plaintiffs’ claims without prejudice.  The Court further grants Plaintiffs leave 
to amend their complaint within thirty (30) days of the date of this Order.  If Plaintiffs do 
not  amend  their  complaint  within  thirty  days,  the  Court  will  dismiss  all  claims  with 
prejudice without further notice. 

     Signed June 16, 2025. 

                                                      David C. Godbey 
                                               Chief United States District Jud 

MEMORANDUM OPINION AND ORDER — PAGE 31 